 WES MOORE, Governor  Ch. 231  
 
– 1 – Chapter 231  
(House Bill 59 ) 
 
AN ACT concerning  
 
Property Tax – Tax Sales – Revisions  
 
FOR the purpose of authorizing a tax collector to withhold from tax sale certain property 
occupied by an heir of a deceased owner of the property;  requiring that certain  
owner –occupied property and certain property occupied by an heir of a deceased 
owner of the property  be withheld from tax sale; requiring each county to establish a 
registry for interested parties or the Tax Sale Ombudsman to designate property to be 
withheld from tax sale under certain provisions of law; requiring the State 
Department of Assessments and Taxation to assist each county in creating and 
maintaining the registry o n request;  requiring a county or municipal corporation to 
withhold from tax sale certain property when the taxes consist only of a lien for 
unpaid water and sewer service;  authorizing a county or a municipal corporation to 
withhold from tax sale certain pr operty designated for redevelopment purposes; 
altering the contents of certain statements required to be sent to an owner of 
property subject to tax sale; altering certain provisions of law concerning abandoned 
property that is sold for less than the lien amount; establishing a maximum rate of 
redemption for owner –occupied property sold at tax sale; prohibiting taxes, interest, 
and penalties accruing after the date of a tax sale from being included in the payment 
required to redeem owner –occupied residentia l property; extending the period of 
time during which a holder of a certificate of sale is prohibited from filing a complaint 
to foreclose the right of redemption for owner –occupied residential property after the 
date of sale;  altering the contents of cert ain notices required to be sent to certain 
persons with an interest in property sold at tax sale; extending the period of time 
after a tax sale during which a certain notice may not be sent to certain persons with 
an interest in owner –occupied residential property sold at the tax sale;  requiring the 
plaintiff in an action to foreclose the right of redemption for an owner –occupied 
property subject to tax sale to send written notice of the proceeding to the State Tax 
Sale Ombudsman; extending the period of ti me after issuance of a judgment 
foreclosing the right of redemption before a plaintiff may take possession of a 
property that has tenants; altering certain notice requirements that apply before a 
plaintiff may take possession of a property that has tenants ; extending the amount 
of time that has to pass after a tax sale before the plaintiff or the holder of a 
certificate of sale for owner –occupied residential property may be reimbursed for 
certain expenses when the property is redeemed; prohibiting the sale of property to 
enforce a lien for unpaid charges for water and sewer service except under certain 
circumstances;  requiring a county to maintain a record of the information the county 
provides for the Annual Tax Sale Survey for a certain minimum number of y ears; 
altering certain requirements concerning eligibility for participation in the 
Homeowner Protection Program; and generally relating to tax sales.  
 
BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,  
Ch. 231  2025 LAWS OF MARYLAND   
 
– 2 –  Article – Tax – Property  
Section 14–811(b) and (e)  14–811(a)(2), (b), (e), and (h) , 14–817.1(a), 14 –820,  
14–828(a), 14–833(a)(2), (a –1)(3)(v)3.  14–833(a –1)(3)(v)3.  and (vi)3. and 
(4)(i)2. , (c)(2), and (d)(2), 14 –836(b)(4)(i) and (7), 14–843(a)(4)(ii)  and (b)(1)(ii),  
14–844(e), 14 –845(c), 14–849.1,  14–879(a), and 14 –883(d)  
 Annotated Code of Maryland  
 (2019 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)  
 
BY adding to  
 Article – Tax – Property  
 Section 14 –811(j)  
 Annotated Code of Maryland  
 (2019 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)  
 
BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,  
 Article – Tax – Property  
Section 14–811(a)(2) , 14–817(c), 14–833(a)(2) and (a–14)(4)(i)2.,  (a–1)(4)(i)2.,   
14–843(a)(4)(ii) and (b)(1)(ii), 14 –849.1,  14–883(a), and 14 –884 
 Annotated Code of Maryland  
 (2019 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)  
 
 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND, 
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:  
 
Article – Tax – Property  
 
14–811. 
 
 (a) (2) The governing body of a county or municipal corporation may withhold 
from sa le owner –occupied residential property  OR RESIDENTIAL PROPE RTY OCCUPIED 
BY AN HEIR OF A DECE ASED OWNER  that meets objective criteria established by the 
governing body of the county or municipal corporation.   
 
 (b) (1) The collector may withhold from sale any NON–OWNER–OCCUPIED  
residential property, when the total taxes on the property, including interest and penalties, 
amount to less than $750.  
 
  (2) [In Baltimore City, the ] THE collector shall withhold from sale  
owner –occupied residential property, when  WHEN  the total taxes on the property, 
including interest and penalties, amount to less than [$750] $1,000 , THE COLLECTOR 
SHALL WITHHOLD FROM SALE : 
 
   (I) OWNER–OCCUPIED RESIDENTIAL  PROPERTY ; AND 
 
 WES MOORE, Governor  Ch. 231  
 
– 3 –    (II) RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY  OCCUPIED BY AN HEIR OF A 
DECEASED OWNER . 
 
  (3) [In Baltimore City, the ] THE collector shall withhold from sale 
residential property or property that is exempt from taxation under § 7 –204(1) or (2) of this 
article, if the taxes on the property consist only of a lien for unpaid charges for water and 
sewer service.  
 
 (e) [Baltimore City ] THE MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL OF BALTIMORE CITY 
OR THE GOVERNING BOD Y OF A COUNTY OR MUN ICIPAL CORPORATION  may withhold 
from sale property that has been des ignated for redevelopment purposes if the property 
meets objective criteria established by the Mayor and City Council of Baltimore City  OR 
THE GOVERNING BODY . 
 
 (h) (1) In this subsection, “dwelling ” and “homeowner ” have the meanings 
stated in § 9 –105 of this article.  
 
  (2) The MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL OF BALTIMORE CITY OR THE 
governing body of a county or municipal corporation may withhold from sale a dwelling 
owned by a homeowner OR OCCUPIED BY AN HE IR OF A DECEASED  HOMEOWNER who is 
low–income, at least 65 years old, or disabled if the homeowner OR HEIR meets eligibility 
criteria established by the county or municipal corporation.  
 
 (J) (1) THE MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL OF BALTIMORE CITY OR THE 
GOVERNING BODY OF A COUNT Y SHALL ESTABLISH A REGISTRY FOR INTERES TED 
PARTIES OR THE TAX SALE OMBUDSMAN TO DESIGNAT E A PROPERTY TO BE 
WITHHELD FROM TAX SA LE IN ACCORDANCE WIT H THIS SECTION . 
 
  (2) ON REQUEST OF THE MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL OF BALTIMORE 
CITY OR THE GOVERNING  BODY OF A  COUNTY , THE DEPARTMENT SHALL PROV IDE 
ASSISTANCE IN CREATI NG AND MAINTAINING T HE REGISTRY REQUIRED  UNDER 
PARAGRAPH (1) OF THIS SUBSECTION .  
 
14–817. 
 
 (c) (1) Abandoned property consisting of either a vacant lot or improved 
property cited as vacant and unf it for habitation on a housing or building violation notice 
may be sold for a sum less than the total amount of:  
 
   (i) all taxes on the property that are certified to the collector under 
§ 14–810 of this subtitle;  
 
   (ii) interest and penalties on the taxes; and  
 
   (iii) expenses incurred in making the sale.  
Ch. 231  2025 LAWS OF MARYLAND   
 
– 4 –  
  (2) The collector shall establish a minimum bid for abandoned property 
sold under this subsection.  
 
  (3) The person responsible for the taxes prior to the sale shall remain liable 
to the collector for the difference between the amount received in the tax sale under this 
section and the taxes, interest, penalties, and expenses remaining after the sale.  
 
  (4) The balance remaining after the tax sale shall be included in the 
amount necessary  to redeem the property under § 14 –828 of this subtitle.  
 
  (5) In a proceeding brought by the governing body of a county or municipal 
corporation to foreclose the right of redemption under this subtitle, the complaint may 
request a judgment for the county  or municipal corporation in the amount of the balance.  
 
  (6) The balance remaining after the tax sale is no longer a lien on the 
property when:  
 
   (i) a judgment is entered foreclosing the owner’s right of 
redemption;  
 
   (ii) the deed is recorded; and  
 
   (iii) all liens accruing subsequent to the date of sale are paid in full.  
 
  (7) The governing body of a county or municipal corporation may institute 
a separate action to collect the balance at any time within 7 years after the tax sale if the 
plainti ff is a private purchaser.  
 
14–817.1.  
 
 (a) Within 60 days after a property is sold at a tax sale, the collector shall send to 
the person who last appears as owner of the property on the collector’s tax roll, at the last 
address shown on the tax roll, a no tice that includes:  
 
  (1) a statement that the property has been sold to satisfy unpaid taxes;  
 
  (2) the date of the tax sale;  
 
  (3) the amount of the highest bid;  
 
  (4) the lien amount on the property at the time of sale;  
 
  (5) a statement that the owner has the right to redeem the property until 
a court forecloses that right;  
 
 WES MOORE, Governor  Ch. 231  
 
– 5 –   (6) a statement that the purchaser of the property may institute an action 
to foreclose the property:  
 
   (i) as early as 6 months from the date of the sale; or  
 
   (ii) if a government agency certifies that the property requires, or 
shall require, substantial repair to comply with applicable business codes, as early as 60 
days from the date of the sale;  
 
  (7) a statement that if the property is redeemed before an action to 
foreclose the right of redemption is filed, the amount that shall be paid to redeem the 
property is:  
 
   (i) the total lien amount on the property at the time of sale, with 
interest;  
 
   (ii) any taxes, interest, and penalties paid by the holder of the 
certificate of sale; and  
 
   (iii) FOR PROPERTY THAT IS  NOT OWNER –OCCUPIED 
RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY , any DELINQUENT  taxes, interest, and penalties accruing after 
the date of the tax sale;  
 
  (8) a statement that, if the property is redeemed more than 4 months aft er 
the date of the tax sale, and before an action to foreclose the right of redemption is filed, 
the holder of the certificate of sale may be reimbursed for:  
 
   (i) attorney’s fees for recording the certificate of sale;  
 
   (ii) a title search fee, not to  exceed $250; and  
 
   (iii) reasonable attorney’s fees, not to exceed $500;  
 
  (9) a statement that, if the property is redeemed after an action to foreclose 
the right of redemption has been filed, the amount that shall be paid to redeem the property 
is the sum of:  
 
   (i) the total lien amount on the property at the time of sale, with 
interest;  
 
   (ii) any taxes, interest, and penalties paid by the holder of the 
certificate of sale;  
 
   (iii) FOR PROPERTY THAT IS  NOT OWNER –OCCUPIED 
RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY , any DELINQUENT  taxes, interest, and penalties accruing after 
the date of the tax sale; and  
Ch. 231  2025 LAWS OF MARYLAND   
 
– 6 –  
   (iv) attorney’s fees and expenses to which the holder of the certificate 
of sale may be entitled under § 14 –843(a)(4) and (5) of this subtitle; and  
 
  (10) the provisions of § 14 –843(a) of this subtitle, reproduced as they appear 
in the Code.  
 
14–820. 
 
 (a) The collector shall deliver to the purchaser a certificate of sale under the 
collector’s hand and seal, or by the collector’s authorized facsimile signature, acknowledged 
by the collector as a conveyance of land, which certificate shall set forth:  
 
  (1) that the property described in it was sold by the collector to the 
purchaser;  
 
  (2) the date of the sale;  
 
  (3) the amount for which the property was sold;  
 
  (4) the total amount of taxes due on the property at the time of sale 
together with interest, penalties and expenses incurred in making the sale;  
 
  (5) a description of the property in substantially the same form as the 
description appearing on the collector’s tax roll. If the property is unimproved or has no 
street number, and the collector has procured a description of the property from the county 
or municipal corporation surveyor, this description shall be included in the certificate of 
sale. In G arrett County a copy of the description as required by § 14 –813(f) of this subtitle, 
as that section relates specifically to Garrett County, shall be included in the certificate of 
sale;  
 
  (6) a statement that the rate of redemption is 6% a year, except a s provided 
in subsection (b) of this section;  
 
  (7) the time when an action to foreclose the right of redemption may be 
instituted; and  
 
  (8) (i) that the certificate will be void unless foreclosure proceedings are 
brought within 2 years from the date of  the certificate; or  
 
   (ii) that, unless foreclosure proceedings are brought within 3 months 
from the date of the certificate to any abandoned property [in Baltimore City ] sold under § 
14–817(c)(1) of this subtitle with a minimum bid less than the lien a mount, the certificate:  
 
    1. is void as to a private purchaser; and  
 
 WES MOORE, Governor  Ch. 231  
 
– 7 –     2. reverts to the Mayor and City Council OF BALTIMORE 
CITY OR THE GOVERNING  BODY OF A COUNTY , OR IF THE PROPERTY I S LOCATED IN 
A MUNICIPAL CORPORAT ION, THE GOVERNING BODY O F THE MU NICIPAL 
CORPORATION for a period of 2 years from the date of the tax sale.  
 
 (b) [The] SUBJECT TO SUBSECTION  (C) OF THIS SECTION , THE rate of 
redemption is 6% a year except:  
 
  (1) in Allegany County the rate is 6% a year or as fixed by the County 
Commissi oners;  
 
  (2) in Anne Arundel County the rate is 6% a year or as fixed by a law of the 
County Council;  
 
  (3) in Baltimore City the rate is 6% a year or as fixed by a law of the City 
Council;  
 
  (4) in Baltimore County the rate is 6% a year or as fixed by a law of the 
County Council;  
 
  (5) in Cecil County the rate is 6% a year or as fixed by the County 
Commissioners;  
 
  (6) in Calvert County the rate is 10% a year or as fixed by the County 
Commissioners;  
 
  (7) in Caroline County the rate is 10% a year or as fixed by the County 
Commissioners;  
 
  (8) in Carroll County the rate is 14% a year or as fixed by the County 
Commissioners;  
 
  (9) in Dorchester County the rate is 10% a year or as fixed by the County 
Commissioners;  
 
  (10) in Frederick County the rate is 6% a year or as fixed by the governing 
body of Frederick County;  
 
  (11) in Garrett County the rate is 10% a year or as fixed by the County 
Commissioners;  
 
  (12) in Harford County the rate is 6% a year or as fixed by a law of the 
County Council;  
 
  (13) in Howard County the rate is 6% a year or as fixed by a law of the 
County Council;  
Ch. 231  2025 LAWS OF MARYLAND   
 
– 8 –  
  (14) in Kent County the rate is 6% a year or as fixed by the County 
Commissioners;  
 
  (15) in Montgomery County the rate is 6% a year or as fixed by a law of the 
County  Council;  
 
  (16) in Prince George’s County the rate is 6% a year or as fixed by a law of 
the County Council;  
 
  (17) in Queen Anne’s County the rate is 6% a year or as fixed by the County 
Commissioners;  
 
  (18) in Somerset County, Charles County, Wicomico  County, and Worcester 
County the rate is 6% a year or as fixed by the County Commissioners or by a law of the 
County Council;  
 
  (19) in Talbot County the rate is 6% a year or as fixed by a law of the County 
Council; and  
 
  (20) in Washington County the rate is 6% a year or as fixed by the County 
Commissioners.  
 
 (C) FOR OWNER –OCCUPIED RESIDENTIAL  PROPERTY , THE RATE OF 
REDEMPTION MAY NOT E XCEED 10%  A YEAR . 
 
 [(c)] (D) The certificate of sale shall be in substantially the following form:  
 
“I, .........., C ollector of Taxes for the State of Maryland and the .......... of ........, certify that 
on ......., 20...., I sold to ........, at public auction for the sum of .......... Dollars and ......... Cents, 
of which ...... Dollars has been paid, the property in  ......... described as ........ and assessed 
to ......... The property described in this certificate is subject to redemption. On redemption 
the holder of the certificate will be refunded the sums paid on account of the purchase price 
together with intere st at the rate of 6% a year from the date of payment to the date of 
redemption (except as stated in [subsection (b) of ] § 14–820 of the Tax – Property Article 
of the Annotated Code of Maryland), together with all other amounts specified by Chapter 
761 of t he Acts of 1943, and acts that amend that chapter. The balance due on account of 
the purchase price and all taxes, together with interest and penalties on the taxes, accruing 
after the date of sale, must be paid to the Collector before a deed can be delive red to the 
purchaser. After .........., 20...., a proceeding can be brought to foreclose all rights of 
redemption in the property. This certificate will be void unless such a proceeding is brought 
within 2 years from the date of this certificate, except th at [in Baltimore City, ] with respect 
to any abandoned property sold under § 14 –817(c) of the Tax – Property Article of the 
Annotated Code of Maryland with a minimum bid less than the lien amount, the certificate 
will revert to the Mayor and City Council OF BALTIMORE CITY OR THE GOVERNING  
 WES MOORE, Governor  Ch. 231  
 
– 9 – BODY OF THE COUNTY , OR IF THE PROPERTY I S LOCATED IN A MUNIC IPAL 
CORPORATION , THE GOVERNING BODY O F THE MUNICIPAL CORP ORATION , and will 
be void as to the private purchaser at tax sale unless such a proceeding is brought wit hin 3 
months from the date of the certificate.  
 
Witness my hand and seal, this ....... day of ......, 20...............  
...............................  
Collector”  
 
(To be followed by acknowledgment).  
 
14–828. 
 
 (a) (1) If the property is redeemed, the pers on redeeming shall pay the 
collector:  
 
   (i) the total lien amount paid at the tax sale for the property 
together with interest;  
 
   (ii) any taxes, interest, and penalties paid by any holder of the 
certificate of sale;  
 
   (iii) except as provided under paragraph (2) of this subsection, any 
delinquent taxes, interest, and penalties accruing after the date of the tax sale;  
 
   (iv) in the manner and by the terms required by the collector, any 
expenses or fees for which the plaintiff or the holder of a cert ificate of sale is entitled to 
reimbursement under § 14 –843 of this subtitle; and  
 
   (v) for vacant and abandoned property sold under § 14 –817 of this 
subtitle for a sum less than the amount due, the difference between the price paid and the 
unpaid taxes,  interest, penalties, and expenses.  
 
  (2) For owner –occupied residential property  [in Baltimore City ], any taxes, 
interest, and penalties accruing after the date of the tax sale may not be included in the 
redemption payment required under paragraph (1) of  this subsection.  
 
14–833. 
 
 (a) (2) Except as provided in subsections (a –1), (e), (f), and (g) of this section, 
at any time after [9] 12 months from the date of sale of owner –occupied residential 
property, a holder of any certificate of sale may file a co mplaint to foreclose all rights of 
redemption of the property to which the certificate relates.  
 
 (a–1) (3) The notices required under this subsection shall include at least the 
following:  
Ch. 231  2025 LAWS OF MARYLAND   
 
– 10 –  
   (v) a statement that if the property is redeemed before an acti on to 
foreclose the right of redemption is filed, the amount that shall be paid to redeem the 
property is:  
 
    3. FOR PROPERTY THAT IS  NOT OWNER –OCCUPIED 
RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY , any delinquent taxes, interest, and penalties accruing after the 
date of the ta x sale; and  
 
   (vi) a statement that if the property is redeemed after an action to 
foreclose the right of redemption has been filed, the amount that shall be paid to redeem 
the property is the sum of:  
 
    3. FOR PROPERTY THAT IS  NOT OWNER –OCCUPIED 
RESI DENTIAL PROPERTY , any delinquent taxes, interest, and penalties accruing after the 
date of the tax sale; and  
 
  (4) (i) 2. For owner –occupied residential property, the first of the 
two notices required under this subsection may not be sent until [7] 10 months after the 
date of sale.  
 
 (c) (2) A certificate for abandoned property sold under § 14 –817(c) of this 
subtitle with a minimum bid less than the lien amount reverts to the MAYOR AND CITY 
COUNCIL OF BALTIMORE CITY OR THE GOVERNING  BODY OF THE  county or , IF THE  
PROPERTY IS LOCATED IN A MUNICIPAL CORPO RATION , THE GOVERNING BODY O F 
THE municipal corporation and is void as to the private purchaser at tax sale unless:  
 
   (i) a proceeding to foreclose the right of redemption is filed within 3 
months of the dat e of the certificate of sale; and  
 
   (ii) unless the holder is granted an extension by the court due to a 
showing of extraordinary circumstances beyond the certificate holder’s control, the holder 
secures a decree from the circuit court in which the forec losure proceeding was filed within 
18 months from the date of the filing of the foreclosure proceeding.  
 
 (d) (2) If a certificate for abandoned property reverts to the Mayor and City 
Council of Baltimore City  OR THE GOVERNING BOD Y OF A COUNTY OR , IF THE 
PROPERTY IS LOCATED I N A MUNICIPAL CORPOR ATION , THE GOVERNING BODY O F 
THE MUNICIPAL CORPOR ATION  under this section, the Mayor and City Council  OR THE 
GOVERNING BODY may:  
 
   (i) file a foreclosure proceeding in its own name; or  
 
   (ii) 1. resell the certificate; and  
 
 WES MOORE, Governor  Ch. 231  
 
– 11 –     2. apply all money received on account of the sale to any 
outstanding balance remaining after the sale on the tax debt owed by the previous owner 
of the abandoned property.  
 
14–836. 
 
 (b) (4) (i) Notwithstanding the provision of parag raph (3) of this 
subsection, the plaintiff shall send written notice of the proceeding to:  
 
    1. all persons having a recorded interest, claim, or lien, 
including a judgment, who have not been made a defendant in the proceeding, and, if the 
subject prope rty is part of a homeowners association or condominium association, to the 
homeowners association or condominium association governing the property, at the last 
reasonably ascertainable address; [and] 
 
    2. each tenant of the subject property whose ident ity is 
known to the plaintiff, at the tenant’s last reasonably ascertainable address ; AND  
 
    3. IF THE SUBJECT PROPE RTY IS OWNER –OCCUPIED , 
THE STATE TAX SALE OMBUDSMAN . 
 
  (7) (i) Subject to subparagraphs (ii) and (iii) of this paragraph, after 
issuance of the judgment foreclosing right of redemption and at least [30] 90 days before 
taking possession of the property, the plaintiff shall give any tenant of the property written 
notice of the plaintiff’s intention to obtain possession of the property and that the tenant 
must vacate the property within [30] 90 days after the notice.  
 
   (ii) During the [30–day] 90–DAY period immediately following 
issuance of the judgment foreclosin g the right of redemption, the plaintiff may apply for, 
process, and obtain, but not execute upon, a writ for possession of the property.  
 
   (iii) The notice shall be sent:  
 
    1. by first –class mail, postage prepaid, CERTIFICATE OF 
MAILING , bearing a po stmark from the United States Postal Service addressed to the 
tenant by name if the identity of the tenant is known to the plaintiff, and addressed to 
“occupant” if the identity of the tenant is not known;  
 
    2. to each separately leased area of the prop erty that the 
plaintiff can reasonably ascertain is occupied; and  
 
    3. in an envelope prominently marked on the outside with 
the following phrase “Notice of Taking Possession of Property”.  
 
Ch. 231  2025 LAWS OF MARYLAND   
 
– 12 –    (IV) THE NOTICE REQUIRED U NDER THIS PARAGRAPH SHALL 
ALSO BE POSTED ON TH E PROPERTY WITHIN 1 DAY  10 5 DAYS  OF FIRST BEING SENT 
UNDER SUBPARAGRAPH (III) OF THIS PARAGRAPH . 
 
14–843. 
 
 (a) (4) (ii) For owner –occupied residential property, if an action to foreclose 
the right of redemption has not been filed, and the property is redeemed more than [7] 10 
months after the date of the tax sale, the holder of a certificate of sale may be reimbursed 
for th e following expenses actually incurred:  
 
    1. costs for recording the certificate of sale;  
 
    2. a title search fee, not to exceed $250;  
 
    3. the postage and certified mailing costs for the notices 
required under § 14 –833(a –1) of this subtitle; and  
 
    4. reasonable attorney’s fees, not to exceed $500.  
 
 (b) (1) (ii) For owner –occupied residential property, the plaintiff or holder 
of a certificate of sale may not be reimbursed for expenses incurred within [7] 10 months 
after the date of sale.  
 
14–844. 
 
 (e) [In Baltimore City where ] WHERE  abandoned property has been sold for a 
sum less than the amount due under § 14 –817 of this subtitle, in a foreclosure proceeding 
brought by the Mayor and City Council  OF BALTIMORE CITY OR THE GOVERNING  BODY 
OF A COUNTY OR MUNICIPA L CORPORATION , the final order may include a judgment in 
favor of the city , COUNTY , OR MUNICIPAL CORPORA TION  and against the person liable 
for taxes prior to the sale, in the amount of the unpaid taxes, interest, penalties, and 
expenses  otherwise due in a tax sale.  
 
14–845. 
 
 (c) [In Baltimore City, with ] WITH respect to abandoned property that is subject 
to § 14 –817(c) of this subtitle:  
 
  (1) a defendant or any person described in § 14 –836(b)(1) or (4)(i) of this 
subtitle may file an a ction to recover damages on the ground of inadequate notice within 3 
years after the date of judgment foreclosing rights of redemption;  
 
  (2) damages in an action under item (1) of this subsection may not exceed 
the fair market value of that person’s interest in the property at the time of the sale; and  
 WES MOORE, Governor  Ch. 231  
 
– 13 –  
  (3) a person may not file to reopen a judgment foreclosing rights of 
redemption based on inadequate notice.  
 
14–849.1.  
 
 (a) [In Baltimore City, the Mayor and City Council ] THE MAYOR AND CITY 
COUNCIL  OF BALTIMORE CITY OR THE GOVERNING  BODY OF A COUNTY OR  
MUNICIPAL CORPORATIO N may not sell a property to enforce a lien for unpaid charges 
for water and sewer service unless:  
 
  (1) the lien is for at least $350;  
 
  (2) the property is not:  
 
   (i) a resid ential property; or  
 
   (ii) real property that is exempt from taxation under § 7 –204(1) or 
(2) of this article; and  
 
  (3) the unpaid charges for water and sewer service are at least 3 quarters 
in arrears.  
 
 (b) Notwithstanding subsection (a) of this sect ion, the Mayor and City Council  OF 
BALTIMORE CITY OR THE GOVERNING  BODY OF A COUNTY OR MUNICIPAL  
CORPORATION  may enforce a lien on a property other than residential property or real 
property that is exempt from taxation under § 7 –204(1) or (2) of this arti cle for unpaid water 
and sewer service that is less than $350 if the property is being sold to enforce another lien.  
 
 (c) This section does not affect any other right or remedy of Baltimore City , A 
COUNTY , OR A MUNICIPAL CORPO RATION  for the collection of a water and sewer service 
charge.  
 
14–879. 
 
 (a) (1) The Department shall conduct an annual survey of each county that 
conducts a tax sale under Part III of this subtitle to obtain the information specified in this 
section.  
 
  (2) Each county shall provide  the Department all the information specified 
in this section on the form that the Department provides.  
 
  (3) The Department may not disburse or authorize the disbursement of any 
funds to a county under this article if the county has not provided all the information 
specified in this section.  
 
Ch. 231  2025 LAWS OF MARYLAND   
 
– 14 –   (4) EACH COUNTY SHALL MAI NTAIN A RECORD OF TH E INFORMATION  
SPECIFIED IN THIS SE CTION FOR AT LEAST 3 YEARS AFTER THE DATE  OF A TAX SALE . 
 
14–883. 
 
 (a) In this part the following words have the meanings indicated.  
 
 (d) “Homeowner” [has the meaning stated ] MEANS : 
 
  (1) A HOMEOWNER AS DEFIN ED in § 9 –105 of this article ; OR 
 
  (2) IF A HOMEOWNER AS DE FINED IN § 9–105 OF THIS ARTICLE IS 
DECEASED : 
 
   (I) THE ESTATE OF THE HO MEOWNER ; 
 
   (II) THE PERSONAL REPRESE NTATIVE  OF THE HOMEOWNER ; OR 
 
   (III) AN HEIR OR LEGATEE O F THE HOMEOWNER WHO IS 
ENTITLED TO INHERIT THE HOMEOWNER ’S DWELLING . 
 
14–884. 
 
 (a) There is a Homeowner Protection Program administered by the Ombudsman 
in the Department.  
 
 (b) The purpose of the Progra m is to divert vulnerable homeowners from the 
private tax lien sale process under Part III of this subtitle into an alternative program with 
the primary purpose of:  
 
  (1) minimizing tax collection costs to homeowners;  
 
  (2) assisting homeowners to pay their taxes; and  
 
  (3) allowing homeowners to remain in their homes.  
 
 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall be construed to 
apply only prospectively and may not be applied or interpreted to have any effect on or 
application to any tax  sale certificate issued before the effective date of this Act.  
 
 SECTION 3. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect 
January 1, 2026.  
 
Approved by the Governor, April 22, 2025.  