 WES MOORE, Governor  Ch. 363  
 
– 1 – Chapter 363  
(House Bill 102 ) 
 
AN ACT concerning  
 
Family and Medical Leave Insurance Program – Application Year and 
Participation of Self –Employed Individuals  Revisions  
 
FOR the purpose of defining “anchor date ” to establish certain reference points for the 
calculation of a certain covered employee’s average weekly wage and eligibility for 
increases in weekly benefits under the Family Medical Leave and Insurance 
Program;  requiring the Maryland Department of Labor to adopt regulations 
establishing an optional self –employed enrollment program governing the 
participation of self –employed individuals in the Family and Medical Leave 
Insurance  Program; repealing certain require ments related to the payment of 
contributions to the Program by participating self –employed individuals; altering 
certain dates related to annual reporting and the implementation of the Program;  
excluding participating self –employed individuals from certai n provisions of law 
governing the payment of benefits under the Program; altering the definition of 
“application year” for purposes of the Program; altering the frequency with which 
subsequent payments are to be made under the Program; authorizing the Secr etary 
to announce, rather than notify each employer of, a certain increase to the maximum 
weekly benefit amount; prohibiting the Department from requiring certain 
employers to escrow employer and employee contributions before the issuance of 
Program benefi ts by the Department;  and generally relating to the Family and 
Medical Leave Insurance Program.  
 
BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,  
 Article – Labor and Employment  
Section 8.3 –101(a) , (d), and (e) and 8.3 –703(b)(3)  
 Annotated Code of Maryland  
 (2016 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)  
 
BY adding to  
 Article – Labor and Employment  
 Section 8.3 –101(a –1) 
 Annotated Code of Maryland  
 (2016 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)  
 
BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,  
 Article – Labor and Employment  
 Section 8.3 –101(b) and (d) , 8.3–201, 8.3–406(a),  8.3–601, 8.3–701(a),  and 8.3 –703(a) 
  and (b)(1) and (2) , (b), (c), (d)(5), (e)(2), and (f)  
 Annotated Code of Maryland  
 (2016 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)  
 
Ch. 363  2025 LAWS OF MARYLAND   
 
– 2 –  SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND, 
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:  
 
Article – Labor and Employment  
 
8.3–101. 
 
 (a) In this title the following words have the meanings indicated.  
 
 (A–1) “ANCHOR DATE ” MEANS THE EARLIER OF  THE DATE ON WHICH : 
 
  (1) AN APPLICATION FOR B ENEFITS IS COMPLETE IN ACCORDANCE 
WITH § 8.3–701( B)(2)  OF THIS TITLE ; OR 
 
  (2) LEAVE BEGINS FOR A C OVERED INDIVIDUAL FO R WHICH BENEFITS 
MAY BE PAID UNDER TH IS TITLE . 
 
 (b) “Application ye ar” means the 12 –month period beginning on the Sunday of 
the calendar week [for which benefits are approved ] IN WHICH LEAVE UNDER  THIS TITLE 
BEGINS . 
 
 (d) “Covered employee” means an employee who has worked at least 680 hours 
performing services under empl oyment located in the State over the four most recently 
completed calendar quarters for which quarterly reports have been required immediately 
preceding the date on which leave is to begin  ANCHOR DATE . 
 
 (e) “Covered individual” means a covered employee or  a self –employed individual 
who elects to participate in the Program under § 8.3 –201 of this title.  
 
8.3–201. 
 
 (a) In this section, “self –employed individual” includes an individual [that] WHO : 
 
  (1) is the sole owner of a sole proprietorship, limited liability company, C 
corporation, or S corporation; and  
 
  (2) is the only individual employed by the sole proprietorship, limited 
liability company, C corporation, or S corporation.  
 
 (b) [(1)] A self –employed individual who is a resident of the State may  elect to 
participate in the Program [by filing a written notice of election with the Secretary ] in 
accordance with regulations adopted by the Secretary  UNDER SUBSECTION (C) OF THIS 
SECTION . 
 
 WES MOORE, Governor  Ch. 363  
 
– 3 –   [(2) An election made under paragraph (1) of this subsection b ecomes 
effective on the date the written notice is filed.  
 
 (c) (1) If a self –employed individual elects to participate in the Program under 
subsection (b) of this section, the individual shall participate for an initial period of not less 
than 3 years.  
 
  (2) Once the initial participation period expires, the self –employed 
individual may renew participation in the Program for a period of not less than 1 year.  
 
  (3) If the self –employed individual does not wish to renew participation in 
the Program under paragraph (2) of this subsection, within 30 days before the participation 
period expires, the self –employed individual shall notify the Secretary in writing of the 
self–employed individual’s withdrawal from the Program.  
 
 (d) During the period a self –emplo yed individual participates in the Program, the 
self–employed individual shall pay the contribution required under § 8.3 –601 of this title. ] 
 
 (C) ON OR BEFORE JULY 1, 2027  2028 , THE SECRETARY SHALL ADOPT  
REGULATIONS THAT EST ABLISH AN OPTIONAL S ELF–EMPLOYE D ENROLLMENT 
PROGRAM AND INCLUDE : 
 
  (1) CONTRIBUTION AMOUNTS ; 
 
  (2) BENEFIT AMOUNTS ; AND 
 
  (3) ENROLLMENT PROCEDURE S. 
 
8.3–406. 
 
 (a) On or before [November 15 ] OCTOBER 1 each year, the Secretary shall 
submit to the Governor and, in accordance with § 2 –1257 of the State Government Article, 
the General Assembly an annual report on the administration and operation of the Program 
during the immediately preceding fiscal year.  
 
8.3–601. 
 
 (a) (1) (I) Beginning July 1, 2025  JANUARY 1, 2027 , each employee of an 
employer [,] AND  each employer with 15 or more employees [, and each self –employed 
individual participating in the Program ] shall contribute to the Fund.  
 
  [(2)] (II) The total rate of contribution established under this section FOR 
EMPLOYEES AND EMPLOY ERS DESCRIBED IN SUB PARAGRAPH (I) OF THIS 
PARAGRAPH : 
 
Ch. 363  2025 LAWS OF MARYLAND   
 
– 4 –    [(i)] 1. may not exceed 1.2% of an employee’s wages; and  
 
   [(ii)] 2. shall be applied to all wages up to and in cluding the Social 
Security wage base.  
 
  (2) EACH SELF –EMPLOYED INDIVIDUAL PARTICIPATING IN THE  
PROGRAM SHALL CONTRIB UTE TO THE FUND IN ACCORDANCE WI TH REGULATIONS 
ADOPTED UNDER § 8.3–201( C) OF THIS TITLE . 
 
 (b) (1) Subject to subsection [(a)(2) ] (A)(1)( II) of this section, on or before 
February 1, 2025  MAY 1, 2026 , the Secretary shall set the total rate of contribution based 
on available cost analyses of the Program.  
 
  (2) The rate set under paragraph (1) of this subsection shall be in effect for 
the period from July 1, 2025  JANUARY 1, 2027 , to June 30, 2026  DECEMBER 31, 2027 , 
both inclusive.  
 
 (c) (1) On or before November 15  OCTOBER 1 each year, beginning in 2026  
2027 , the Secretary shall conduct a cost analysis of the Program that is focused on the cost 
of maintaining solvency and paying benefits to covered individuals that will be used to 
determine the appropriate total rate of contribution to the Fund.  
 
  (2) On or befor e November 15  OCTOBER 1 each year, the Secretary shall 
report the results of the cost analysis to the Senate Finance Committee, the House 
Economic Matters Committee, and the Joint Committee on Administrative, Executive, and 
Legislative Review in accordance  with § 2 –1257 of the State Government Article.  
 
 (d) (1) Subject to paragraph (2) of this subsection and subsection [(a)(2) ] 
(A)(1)( II) of this section, on or before February  NOVEMBER  1 each year, beginning in 2026  
2027 , the Secretary shall set the total rate of contribution that will be in effect for the  
12–month period beginning on the immediately following July JANUARY  1. 
 
  (2) The rate set under paragraph (1) of this subsection shall be based on 
the cost analysis required under subsection (c) of this  section.  
 
 (e) (1) (i) Except as otherwise provided in this section, each employer of 15 
or more employees shall contribute an amount equal to 50% of the total rate of contribution 
for each employee.  
 
   (ii) Except as otherwise provided in this section, each employee of an 
employer shall contribute an amount equal to 50% of the total rate of contribution.  
 
  (2) (i) Except as provided in subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph, the 
employer of the employee shall deduct the employee’s required contribution fro m the wages 
of the employee.  
 WES MOORE, Governor  Ch. 363  
 
– 5 –  
   (ii) 1. An employer may elect to pay all or a portion of the 
required employee contributions in whole or in part.  
 
    2. If the employer of an employee elects to pay a portion of 
the employee’s required contribution, the employer:  
 
    A. may deduct an amount that is less than 50% of the rate of 
contribution required from the wages of the employee; and  
 
    B. shall notify employees of the rate of contribution set for 
employees under subsection (d)(1) of this section and t he portion of that amount that the 
employer is electing to pay.  
 
 [(f) Each self –employed individual participating in the Program shall:  
 
  (1) pay contributions during each year that the self –employed individual 
participates in the Program; and  
 
  (2) contribute an amount equal to the total rate of contribution set under 
subsection (d) of this section. ] 
 
 [(g)] (F) (1) The Maryland Department of Health shall reimburse each:  
 
   (i) community provider that is required to be licensed or certified 
under Ti tle 7 of the Health – General Article for 100% of the employer contribution required 
under subsection (e) of this section for employees who manage or provide services under 
Title 7 of the Health – General Article;  
 
   (ii) community provider that is requir ed to be licensed or certified 
under Title 7.5 of the Health – General Article for a percentage of the employer contribution 
required under subsection (e) of this section for employees who manage or provide services 
under Title 7.5 of the Health – General Article that is equal to the percentage of revenue 
that is attributable to federal and State Medicaid funding and any other State funding 
received by the community provider for the services during the period covered by the 
reimbursement; or  
 
   (iii) provi der, as defined in § 16 –201.4 of the Health – General Article, 
for a percentage of the employer contribution required under subsection (e) of this section 
for employees who manage or provide services described in § 16 –201.4(a) of the  
Health – General Arti cle that is equal to the percentage of revenue attributable to federal 
and State Medicaid funding and any other State funding received by the provider for the 
services during the period covered by the reimbursement.  
 
  (2) The Maryland Department of Health  shall make the reimbursements 
required under paragraph (1) of this subsection at least quarterly.  
Ch. 363  2025 LAWS OF MARYLAND   
 
– 6 –  
  (3) To receive reimbursement under paragraph (1) of this subsection, a 
provider shall provide to the Maryland Department of Health any information necessa ry to 
carry out this subsection in the form and manner required by the Maryland Department of 
Health.  
 
8.3–701. 
 
 (a) (1) Subject to paragraph (2) of this subsection, beginning [July 1, 2026 ] ON 
A DATE NOT EARLIER T HAN JANUARY 1, 2027,  BUT NOT LATER THAN JANUARY 3, 
2028,  DETERMINED AND ANNOU NCED BY THE SECRETARY , a covered individual taking 
leave from employment may submit a claim for benefits:  
 
   (i) 1. to care for a newborn child of the cov ered individual during 
the first year after the child’s birth; or  
 
    2. because a child is being placed for adoption, foster care, or 
kinship care with the covered individual or to care for or bond with the child during the 
first year after the placement ; 
 
   (ii) to care for a family member with a serious health condition;  
 
   (iii) to attend to a serious health condition that results in the covered 
individual being unable to perform the functions of the covered individual’s position;  
 
   (iv) to care for a service member with a serious health condition 
resulting from military service for whom the covered individual is next of kin; or  
 
   (v) to attend to a qualifying exigency arising out of the deployment 
of a service member who is a family member of t he covered individual.  
 
8.3–703. 
 
 (a) For the purposes of this section:  
 
  (1) the covered [individual’s ] EMPLOYEE ’S average weekly wage shall be 
calculated as the total wages received by the covered [individual ] EMPLOYEE  in the 
highest of the previous four completed calendar quarters THAT IMMEDIATELY PRE CEDE 
THE ANCHOR DATE AND  for which quarterly reports have been required, divided by 13; 
and 
 
  (2) the State average weekly wage shall be the wage calculated under §  
9–603 of this article.  
 
 WES MOORE, Governor  Ch. 363  
 
– 7 –  (b) (1) Subject to paragraphs (2) and (3) of this subsection, the weekly benefit 
amount payable to a covered [individual ] EMPLOYEE  under this title shall be:  
 
   (i) if the covered [individual’s ] EMPLOYEE ’S average weekly wage 
is 65% o r less of the State average weekly wage, 90% of the covered [individual’s ] 
EMPLOYEE ’S average weekly wage; or  
 
   (ii) if the covered [individual’s ] EMPLOYEE ’S average weekly wage 
is greater than 65% of the State average weekly wage, the sum of:  
 
    1. 90% of the covered [individual’s ] EMPLOYEE ’S average 
weekly wage up to 65% of the State average weekly wage; and  
 
    2. 50% of the covered [individual’s ] EMPLOYEE ’S average 
weekly wage that is greater than 65% of the State average weekly wage.  
 
  (2) The be nefit paid under this title and any additional paid leave cannot 
total more than 100% of the covered [individual’s ] EMPLOYEE ’S average weekly wage.  
 
  (3) The weekly benefit amount payable under paragraph (1) of this 
subsection:  
 
   (i) shall be at least $50; and  
 
   (ii) may not exceed:  
 
    1. for the 6–month period beginning July 1, 2026,  PERIOD 
BEGINNING ON THE DAT E ANNOUNCED BY THE SECRETARY UNDER § 8.3–701( A)(1) 
OF THIS SUBTITLE AND  ENDING DECEMBER 31, 2028,  BOTH INCLUSIVE , $1,000; and  
 
    2. for the 12 –month period beginning January 1, 2027  2029 , 
and each subsequent 12 –month period, the amount determined and announced by the 
Secretary under paragraph (4) of this subsection.  
 
  (4) (i) In this paragraph, “Consumer Price Index ” means the Consume r 
Price Index for All Urban Consumers for the Washington –Arlington –Alexandria,  
DC–VA–MD–WV metropolitan area or a successor index published by the federal Bureau 
of Labor Statistics.  
 
   (ii) Subject to subsection (e) of this section, for the 12 –month per iod 
beginning January 1, [2027] 2029 , and each subsequent 12 –month period, the maximum 
weekly benefit amount shall be increased by the amount, rounded to the nearest cent, that 
equals the product of:  
 
Ch. 363  2025 LAWS OF MARYLAND   
 
– 8 –     1. the maximum weekly benefit amount in effect for the 
immediately preceding 12 –month period; and  
 
    2. the annual percentage growth in the Consumer Price 
Index for the immediately preceding 12 –month period, as determined by the Secretary 
under subparagraph (iii)1 of this paragraph.  
 
   (iii) Beginning September 1, [2026] 2028 , and on each subsequent 
September 1, the Secretary shall determine and announce:  
 
    1. the annual percentage growth, if any, in the Consumer 
Price Index based on the most recent 12 –month period for which data are availa ble on 
September 1; and  
 
    2. the maximum weekly benefit amount effective for the  
12–month period beginning the immediately following January 1.  
 
 (c) (1) Except as provided in paragraph (2) of this subsection, an increase in 
the weekly benefit amount u nder subsection (b)(4) of this section applies only to [a claim 
for benefits  that begins ] AN APPLICATION YEAR WITH AN ANCHOR DATE  THAT OCCURS 
ON OR after the date the increase becomes effective.  
 
  (2) If the leave for which benefits are being paid is being taken 
intermittently, an increase in the weekly benefit amount shall apply to a claim for benefits 
as specified in regulations adopted by the Department.  
 
 (d) The Department shall:  
 
  (5) make subsequent payments AT LEAST every 2 weeks until the ben efit 
period ends.  
 
 (e) (2) Subject to paragraph (4) of this subsection, on or before September 1 
each year, beginning in [2026] 2028 , the Board shall determine whether the seasonally 
adjusted total employment from the Current Employment Statistics series as reported by 
the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics for the most recent 6 –month period is negative as 
compared with the immediately preceding 6 –month period.  
 
 (f) The Department shall [notify each employer of ] ANNOUNCE  the increase to 
the maximum weekly be nefit specified under subsection (b)(3)(ii) of this section.  
 
 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That the Maryland Department of 
Labor may not require employers who are allowed to pool together with other employers 
under § 19 –602 of the Insurance Artic le to purchase insurance to escrow employer and 
employee contributions under § 8.3 –601 of the Labor and Employment Article before the 
issuance of Family and Medical Leave Insurance Program benefits by the Department.  
 WES MOORE, Governor  Ch. 363  
 
– 9 –  
 SECTION 2. 3. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACT ED, That this Act shall take effect 
June 1, 2025.  
 
Approved by the Governor, May 6, 2025.  