 WES MOORE, Governor  Ch. 476  
 
– 1 – Chapter 476  
(House Bill 249 ) 
 
AN ACT concerning  
 
Residential Real Property – Local Limit s on Summoning Law Enforcement or 
Emergency Services  
 
FOR the purpose of prohibiting a local jurisdiction from enforcing a law or ordinance  that 
limit s the summoning of law enforcement or emergency services to a residential 
property by establishing a certain threshold or penalty ; and generally relating to the 
enforcement of loc al laws and ordinances that limit the summoning of law 
enforcement or emergency services.  
 
BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,  
 Article – Real Property  
Section 14 –126 
 Annotated Code of Maryland  
 (2023 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)  
 
 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND, 
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:  
 
Article – Real Property  
 
14–126. 
 
 (a) (1) In this section the following words have the meanings indicated.  
 
  (2) “Emergency services” includes fire,  rescue, and ambulance services and 
a mobile crisis team as defined in § 10 –1401 of the Health – General Article.  
 
  (3) “Governing body” has the meaning stated in § 1 –101 of the Local 
Government Article.  
 
  (4) “Municipality” has the meaning stated in § 1 –101 of the Local 
Government Article.  
 
  (5) “Rental license” means any certificate, license, or permit required to 
rent residential real property issued by a county or a municipality.  
 
  (6) (i) “Short –term rental unit” means a residential dwelling unit o r a 
portion of the unit used to provide housing for less than 31 consecutive days.  
 
Ch. 476  2025 LAWS OF MARYLAND   
 
– 2 –    (ii) “Short –term rental unit” does not include a hotel or motel, 
boarding house, group residential facility for students, fraternity or sorority house, or 
similar housin g. 
 
 (b) This section does not apply to a local law or ordinance governing:  
 
  (1) The installation and use of residential security alarm systems;  
 
  (2) The physical condition, sanitation, maintenance, or repair of real 
property, including vacant buildings;  
 
  (3) Parking enforcement;  
 
  (4) Calls to law enforcement concerning social gatherings or excessive noise 
that do not involve an offense set forth in the Criminal Law Article and are:  
 
   (i) Made with the intent to harass another; or  
 
   (ii) Knowingly false, as a whole or in material part; or  
 
  (5) Short –term rental units.  
 
 (c) (1) The governing body of a county or a municipality may not enact OR 
ENFORCE  a local law or ordinance that:  
 
   (i) Establishes a threshold of requests to summon la w enforcement 
or emergency services to a residential property as grounds for designating a property as a 
nuisance; or  
 
   (ii) Penalizes or authorizes a penalty against an operator, an owner, 
an owner –occupant, or a tenant for:  
 
    1. The act of summoning  law enforcement or emergency 
services to a residential property; or  
 
    2. The actions of another individual to summon the 
assistance of law enforcement or emergency services to a residential property.  
 
  (2) There is a presumption that a local law or or dinance relating to 
summoning law enforcement or emergency services to a residential property is prohibited 
under paragraph (1)(ii) of this subsection if the local law or ordinance authorizes or 
requires:  
 
   (i) The assessment of a monetary penalty or fine on an operator, an 
owner, an owner –occupant, or a tenant;  
 
 WES MOORE, Governor  Ch. 476  
 
– 3 –    (ii) The use of an action for repossession of a dwelling unit from a 
tenant or termination or nonrenewal of a tenant’s lease; or  
 
   (iii) The revocation, suspension, or nonrenewal of a ren tal license.  
 
 (d) An operator, an owner, an owner –occupant, or a tenant may raise the issue 
that a local law or ordinance is prohibited under subsection (c) of this section:  
 
  (1) As a defense to an action to enforce the local law or ordinance; or  
 
  (2) As an affirmative claim for damages resulting from the enforcement of 
the law or ordinance.  
 
 (e) If in any proceeding the court finds in favor of the operator, owner,  
owner –occupant, or tenant, the court may enter a judgment against the county or 
munici pality attempting to enforce the prohibited local law or ordinance and award the 
operator, owner, owner –occupant, or tenant:  
 
  (1) Reasonable damages;  
 
  (2) Reasonable attorney’s fees;  
 
  (3) Court costs;  
 
  (4) Reinstatement of a rental license; and  
 
  (5) Other relief as deemed appropriate by the court.  
 
 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect July 
1, 2025.  
 
Approved by the Governor, May 13, 2025.  