 WES MOORE, Governor  Ch. 677  
 
– 1 – Chapter 677  
(House Bill 546 ) 
 
AN ACT concerning  
 
Digital Advertising Gross Revenues Tax  – Assessments – Appeals and 
Corrections  
 
FOR the purpose of establishing a certain appeal process for persons who are subject to the 
digital advertising gross revenues tax and receive a notice of assessment from the 
Comptroller; authorizing the Comptroller or the Comptroller’s designee to issue an 
order to correct an erroneous assessment of the  digital advertising gross revenues 
tax, subject to certain conditions; and generally relating to the digital advertising 
gross revenues tax.  
 
BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,  
 Article – Tax – General  
Section 13 –402(a)(6)  
 Annotated Code of Maryland  
 (2022 Replacement Volume and 202 4 Supplement)  
 
BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,  
 Article – Tax – General  
Section 13 –508 and 13 –509 
 Annotated Code of Maryland  
 (2022 Replacement Volume and 202 4 Supplement)  
 
 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACT ED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND, 
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:  
 
Article – Tax – General  
 
13–402. 
 
 (a) If a notice and demand for a return is made under § 13 –303 of this title and 
the person or governmental unit fails to file the return , the tax collector shall:  
 
  (6) for digital advertising gross revenues tax:  
 
   (i) estimate gross revenues from the best information in possession 
of the tax collector; and  
 
   (ii) assess the tax due on the estimated assessable base.  
 
13–508. 
 
Ch. 677  2025 LAWS OF MARYLAND   
 
– 2 –  (a) Within 30 days after the date on which a notice of assessment of the 
admissions and amusement tax, alcoholic beverage tax, boxing and wrestling tax, DIGITAL 
ADVERTISING GROSS RE VENUES TAX , income tax, motor carrier tax, motor fuel tax, 
public service company franchise tax, financial institution franchise tax, sales and use tax, 
or tobacco tax is mailed, a person or governmental unit against which the assessment is 
made may submit to the tax  collector:  
 
  (1) an application for revision of the assessment; or  
 
  (2) except for the public service company franchise tax, if the assessment 
is paid, a claim for refund.  
 
 (b) If a person or governmental unit fails to submit an application for revisi on or 
claim for refund within the time allowed in subsection (a) of this section, the assessment 
becomes final.  
 
 (c) The Comptroller or an employee of the Comptroller’s office expressly 
designated by the Comptroller promptly:  
 
  (1) (i) shall hold an info rmal hearing on a person’s or governmental 
unit’s admissions and amusement tax, alcoholic beverage tax, boxing and wrestling tax, 
DIGITAL ADVERTISING GROSS REVENUES TAX , income tax, motor carrier tax, motor fuel 
tax, sales and use tax, or tobacco tax appli cation for revision or claim for refund under 
subsection (a) of this section; and  
 
   (ii) after the hearing:  
 
    1. shall act on the application for revision; and  
 
    2. may assess any additional tax, penalty, and interest due; 
and 
 
  (2) shall mail to the person or governmental unit a notice of final 
determination.  
 
 (d) The Department promptly:  
 
  (1) (i) shall act on a person’s public service company franchise tax or 
financial institution franchise tax application for revision under subsection (a) of this 
section; or  
 
   (ii) 1. shall hold an informal hearing after giving reasonable 
notice to the person; and  
 
    2. after the hearing:  
 
 WES MOORE, Governor  Ch. 677  
 
– 3 –     A. shall act on the application for revision; and  
 
    B. may assess any additional tax, penalty, and interest due; 
and 
 
  (2) shall mail to the person a notice of final determination.  
 
13–509. 
 
 (a) Notwithstanding a person’s failure to file a timely application for revision or 
claim for refund of an assessment of the admissions and amusement tax, alcoholic bevera ge 
tax, boxing and wrestling tax, DIGITAL ADVERTISING GROSS REVENUES TAX , income 
tax, motor carrier tax, motor fuel tax, sales and use tax, or tobacco tax under § 13 –508(a) 
of this subtitle, the Comptroller or the Comptroller’s designee may issue an order 
decreasing or abating an assessment to correct an erroneous assessment.  
 
 (b) If action is taken under subsection (a) of this section, the order shall state 
clearly the reasons for decreasing or abating the assessment.  
 
 (c) Any order issued by the Comptro ller under subsection (a) of this section shall 
be final and not subject to appeal.  
 
 (d) The Comptroller’s refusal to enter an order under subsection (a) of this section 
shall be final and not subject to appeal.  
 
 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, Tha t this Act shall take effect 
January  1, 202 6, and shall be applicable to assessments of the digital advertising gross 
revenues tax made after December 31, 202 5. 
 
Approved by the Governor, May 20, 2025.  