 WES MOORE, Governor  Ch. 769  
 
– 1 – Chapter 769  
(House Bill 584 ) 
 
AN ACT concerning  
 
State Retirement and Pension System – Transfers Between Systems – 
Workgroup  
 
FOR the purpose of requiring the State Retirement Agency to convene a workgroup to study 
transfers of member service between State and local retirement and pension 
systems; and generally relating to transfers of member service between State and 
local retirement and pension systems.  
 
 SECTION 1. BE IT EN ACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND, 
That:  
 
 (a) (1) The State Retirement Agency shall convene a workgroup of interested 
stakeholders to study the requirements and processes for transfers of member service 
between State and local retirement and pensi on systems and make recommendations to 
improve the process of transfers between systems.  
 
  (2) The workgroup convened under paragraph (1) of this subsection shall 
include:  
 
   (i) one or more representatives of the State Retirement Agency, 
designated by the Executive Director of the State Retirement Agency;  
 
   (ii) 1. one representative of the Baltimore City Employees’ 
Retirement System or the Baltimore City Fire and Police Employees’ Retirement System;  
 
    2. one representative of the Baltimore County Employees 
Retirement System; and 
 
    3. one representative of the Howard County Retirement Plan 
or the Howard County Police and Fire Employees’ Retirement Plan;  
 
    4. one representative of the Anne Arundel County 
Government Employees’ Retirement Plan, the Anne Arundel County Fire Service 
Retirement Plan, the Anne Arundel County Detention Officers’ and Deputy Sheriffs’ 
Retirement Plan, or the Anne Arundel County Police Service Retirement Plan; and  
 
    5. one representative of the Frederick County Employ ees 
Retirement Plan;  
 
   (iii) one representative from the American Federation of State, 
County, and Municipal Employees; and  
Ch. 769  2025 L AWS OF MARYLAND   
 
– 2 –  
   (iv) one or more representatives of the Department of Legislative 
Services, designated by the Executive Director of the Depart ment of Legislative Services.  
 
  (3) The representatives serving under paragraph (2)(ii) of this subsection 
shall be appointed by the Maryland Association of Counties.  
 
 (b) The workgroup shall:  
 
  (1) review federal and State requirements pertaining to tr ansfers of service 
credit between systems;  
 
  (2) review Title 37 of the State Personnel and Pensions Article for statutory 
inconsistencies and duplicative or ambiguous provisions;  
 
  (3) examine any other issues related to transfers of member service 
between State and local retirement and pension systems; and  
 
  (4) recommend legislative changes required to address statutory 
inconsistencies and duplicative or ambiguous provisions within Title 37 of the State 
Personnel and Pensions Article, and any othe r issues identified by the workgroup.  
 
 (c) The State Retirement Agency shall provide staff for the workgroup.  
 
 (d) On or before December 1, 2025, the State Retirement Agency shall submit a 
report of the findings and recommendations of the workgroup, incl uding the need for any 
legislative initiatives, to the Governor and, in accordance with § 2 –1257 of the State 
Government Article, the General Assembly.  
 
 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect June 
1, 2025. It shall remain ef fective for a period of 1 year and 1 month and, at the end of June 
30, 2026, this Act, with no further action required by the General Assembly, shall be 
abrogated and of no further force and effect.  
 
Approved by the Governor, May 20, 2025.  