 WES MOORE, Governor  Ch. 538  
 
– 1 – Chapter 538  
(House Bill 929 ) 
 
AN ACT concerning  
 
Family Law – Permanent Protective Order s – Consent  
 
FOR the purpose of specifying  that an individual may consent to the issuance of a 
permanent protective order against the individual ; and generally relating to 
permanent protective orders.  
 
BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,  
 Article – Family Law  
Section 4 –506(k) 
 Annotated Code of Maryland  
 (2019 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)  
 
 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND, 
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:  
 
Article – Family Law  
 
4–506. 
 
 (k) (1) Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, the court shall 
issue a permanent protective order under this subsection against an individual if:  
 
   (i) an interim, temporary, or final protective order has been issued 
under this subtitle against the individual;  
 
   (ii) 1. the individual was convicted and sentenced t o serve a term 
of imprisonment of at least 5 years for the act of abuse that led to the issuance of the 
interim, temporary, or final protective order and the individual has served at least 12 
months of the sentence; [or] 
 
    2. A. during the term of the i nterim, temporary, or final 
protective order, the individual committed an act of abuse against the person eligible for 
relief; and  
 
    B. the individual was convicted and sentenced to serve a term 
of imprisonment of at least 5 years for the act and has se rved at least 12 months of the 
sentence; [and] OR 
 
    3. THE INDIVIDUAL CONSE NTS TO THE ISSUANCE  OF THE 
PERMANENT PROTECTIVE  ORDER ; AND 
Ch. 538  2025 LAWS OF MARYLAND   
 
– 2 –  
   (iii) the victim of the act of abuse described in item (ii)1 or 2 of this 
paragraph, who was the person eligible for relief in the interim, temporary, or final 
protective order, requests the issuance of a permanent protective order under this 
subsection.  
 
  (2) In a permanent protective order issued under this subsection, the court 
may grant only the relief that was granted in the original protective order under §  
4–504.1(c)(1) or (2) or § 4 –505(a)(2)(i) or (ii) of this subtitle or subsection (d)(1) or (2) of th is 
section.  
 
  (3) Unless terminated at the request of the victim, a protective order issued 
under this subsection shall be permanent.  
 
 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect 
October 1, 2025.  
 
Approved by the Governor, May 1 3, 2025.  