 WES MOORE, Governor  Ch. 764  
 
– 1 – Chapter 764  
(House Bill 1072 ) 
 
AN ACT concerning  
 
State Retirement and Pension System – Administrative Fees – Repeal  
 
FOR the purpose of requiring the Board of Trustees for the State Retirement and Pension 
System to certify certain employer contribution rates each fiscal year; requiring the 
employer contribution rates to include recognition of certain administrative and 
operational expenses; repealing a requirement that certain administrative and 
operational expenses of the State Retirement and Pension System and the State 
Retirement Agency be funded by charging each participating employer an 
administrative fee for each sy stem participant; clarifying that certain payments 
certified by the Board of Trustees to be paid by local employers in a certain fiscal 
year shall be paid;  requiring the Board of Trustees to fund certain operating 
expenses of the State Retirement Agency th rough the accumulation fund; and 
generally relating to the funding of the administrative and operating expenses of the 
State Retirement and Pension System and the State Retirement Agency.  
 
BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,  
 Article – State Pe rsonnel and Pensions  
Section 21 –125, 21 –302, 21 –303, and 21 –315 
 Annotated Code of Maryland  
 (2024 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)  
 
BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,  
 Article – State Personnel and Pensions  
Section 21 –301 
 Annotated Code of Maryland  
 (2024 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)  
 
BY repealing  
 Article – State Personnel and Pensions  
Section 21 –316 
 Annotated Code of Maryland  
 (2024 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)  
 
 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMB LY OF MARYLAND, 
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:  
 
Article – State Personnel and Pensions  
 
21–125. 
 
 (a) The Board of Trustees shall designate an actuary who shall:  
Ch. 764  2025 LAWS OF MARYLAND   
 
– 2 –  
  (1) give technical advice to the Board of Trustees on the operation of the 
funds of the several systems; and  
 
  (2) perform other related duties that the Board of Trustees requires.  
 
 (b) (1) On the basis of actuarial assumptions that the Board of Trustees 
adopts, each year the actuary shall make a valuation of the assets and lia bilities of the 
funds of the several systems AND SHALL RECOMMEND THE RATES OF EMPLOYE R 
CONTRIBUTIONS TO BE CERTIFIED BY THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES . 
 
  (2) (I) 1. Each year , ON THE RECOMMENDATIO N OF THE 
ACTUARY , the Board of Trustees shall certify to the Secreta ry of Budget and Management 
and to the Governor the rates of employer contributions.  
 
    2. EACH YEAR , ON THE RECOMMENDATIO N OF THE 
ACTUARY , THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES SHALL CERTIF Y TO ALL OTHER PARTI CIPATING 
EMPLOYERS THE RATES OF EMPLOYER CONTRIBU TIONS . 
 
   (II) THE NORMAL CONTRIBUTI ON RATE RECOMMENDED BY THE 
ACTUARY AND CERTIFIE D BY THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES FOR ALL EMPL OYERS 
UNDER SUBPARAGRAPH (I) OF THIS PARAGRAPH FO R EACH FISCAL YEAR S HALL 
INCLUDE AN AMOUNT NE CESSARY FOR THE ADMI NISTRATIVE AND OPERA TIONAL 
EXP ENSES OF THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES AND THE STATE RETIREMENT AGENCY , 
EXCLUDING THE ADMINI STRATIVE AND OPERATI ONAL EXPENSES OF THE  
INVESTMENT DIVISION . 
 
  (3) For purposes of actuarial valuation, the Board of Trustees may adopt a 
generally accepted ACTUARIAL  method for determining the value of the assets held by the 
several systems.  
 
  (4) For general ledger accounting and financial reporting, the Board of 
Trustees shall use generally accepted accounting principles.  
 
 (c) (1) At least once in each 5 –year period, the actuary shall make:  
 
   (i) actuarial investigations into the compensation, mortality, and 
service experience of the participants of each of the several systems; and  
 
   (ii) a valuation of the assets and liabilities of the funds of each of the 
several  systems.  
 
  (2) The Board of Trustees shall:  
 
 WES MOORE, Governor  Ch. 764  
 
– 3 –    (i) review the results of the investigations and valuations of the 
actuary; and  
 
   (ii) adopt the actuarial assumptions for each of the several systems 
as the Board of Trustees considers necessary.  
 
21–301. 
 
 (a) In each State system, there is:  
 
  (1) an accumulation fund;  
 
  (2) an annuity savings fund; and  
 
  (3) an expense fund.  
 
 (b) The Board of Trustees shall credit the assets of each State system to the 
appropriate fund of the State system acco rding to the purpose for which the assets are held.  
 
21–302. 
 
 (a) The following are obligations of the State:  
 
  (1) the payment of all allowances and other benefits payable under this 
Division II;  
 
  (2) the creation and maintenance of reserves in the ac cumulation funds of 
the several systems; AND  
 
  (3) the crediting of regular interest to the annuity savings funds of the 
several systems [; and  
 
  (4) except as provided in § 21 –316 of this subtitle, the payment of the 
expenses for administration and opera tion of the several systems ]. 
 
 (b) The assets of the several systems shall be used to pay the obligations of the 
State specified in this section.  
 
 (c) Each fiscal year the State shall pay to the accumulation fund of each State 
system at least an amount that when combined with the amount in the accumulation fund 
of the system is sufficient to provide the allowances and other benefits payable out of the 
fund during that fiscal year.  
 
21–303. 
 
Ch. 764  2025 LAWS OF MARYLAND   
 
– 4 –  (a) The Board of Trustees shall credit to the accumulation fund  of each State 
system:  
 
  (1) all employer contributions to the State system;  
 
  (2) all interest, dividends, and other income derived from the assets of the 
State system; and  
 
  (3) amounts transferred under § 21 –311(c) or (d) of this subtitle.  
 
 (b) The Board of Trustees shall pay from the accumulation fund of a State system 
all benefits payable under that State system except for benefits payable from the annuity 
savings fund of that State system.  
 
 (c) (1) Each year the Board of Trustees shall transfer f rom the accumulation 
fund of each State system to each member’s account in the annuity savings fund of that 
State system regular interest on the account as provided in this Division II.  
 
  (2) If a retiree who has retired because of disability is restored to 
membership, the Board of Trustees shall transfer from the accumulation fund of the 
appropriate State system to the annuity savings fund of that State system an amount equal 
to the remaining portion of the retiree’s annuity reserve.  
 
 (d) [(1)] Each year , the Board of Trustees shall transfer from the accumulation 
fund of each State system to the expense fund of that system the amounts required by § 
21–315 of this subtitle.  
 
  [(2) On or before June 30 each year, the administrative fees that are paid 
by pa rticipating employers as provided in § 21 –316 of this subtitle for that year shall be 
reimbursed to the accumulation fund of each State system for the amount transferred to 
the expense fund of that system under paragraph (1) of this subsection. ] 
 
21–315. 
 
 (a) The Board of Trustees shall credit to the expense fund of each State system 
its pro rata share of:  
 
  (1) the amount [provided in the annual State budget to pay the 
administrative and operational expenses of the Board of Trustees and the State Retirement 
Agency ] ATTRIBUTABLE TO THE ADMINISTRATIVE AND O PERATIONAL EXPENSES OF 
THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES AND THE STATE RETIREMENT AGENCY AS CERTIFIED B Y 
THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES UNDER § 21–125 OF THIS TITLE ; 
 
 WES MOORE, Governor  Ch. 764  
 
– 5 –   (2) the amounts authorized by the Board of Trustees under this section for 
investment management services, including personnel and operational expenses of the 
Investment Division; and  
 
  (3) the amount authorized by the Board of Trustees to implement a closing 
agreement with the Internal Revenue Se rvice regarding former members of the Employees’ 
Retirement System or the Teachers’ Retirement System who elected to become members of 
or participate in those State systems under former Article 73B, §§ 2 –206 and 3 –206 of the 
Code.  
 
 (b) (1) The Board of Tr ustees shall pay from the expense fund of each State 
system its pro rata share of:  
 
   (i) the administrative and operational expenses of the Board of 
Trustees and the State Retirement Agency, in accordance with the annual State budget;  
 
   (ii) the amount s as authorized by the Board of Trustees necessary 
for investment management services, including personnel and operational expenses of the 
Investment Division; and  
 
   (iii) the amounts as authorized by the Board of Trustees necessary to 
implement a closin g agreement with the Internal Revenue Service regarding former 
members of the Employees’ Retirement System or the Teachers’ Retirement System who 
elected to become members of or participate in those State systems under former Article 
73B, §§ 2 –206 and 3 –206 of the Code.  
 
  (2) The amounts for the personnel and operational expenses of the 
Investment Division shall be paid out of the accumulation fund of each State system on a 
pro rata basis [and may not be paid by participating employers as provided in § 21 –316 of 
this subtitle ]. 
 
 (c) Each year the Board of Trustees shall estimate the amount, not exceeding 
0.22% of active member payroll, retiree benefits, and former member compensation, 
necessary for the administrative and operational expenses of the Board o f Trustees and the 
State Retirement Agency.  
 
 (d) (1) Each quarter of the fiscal year the Board of Trustees shall estimate 
one–fourth of an amount, not exceeding 0.5% of the market value as of the last day of the 
preceding quarter of invested assets that a re externally managed exclusive of assets 
invested in real estate or alternative investments, necessary to procure and retain 
investment management services other than external real estate or alternative investment 
management services.  
 
  (2) The Board of Trustees is not limited in the amount of investment 
manager fees that the Board of Trustees may pay as necessary for external real estate or 
alternative investment management services.  
Ch. 764  2025 LAWS OF MARYLAND   
 
– 6 –  
 (e) (1) The amounts estimated under subsection (c) of this section sh all be paid 
into the expense funds of the several systems during the ensuing year on a pro rata basis 
according to the total membership of each system.  
 
  (2) The amounts estimated under subsection (d) of this section shall be paid 
into the expense funds o f the several systems during the ensuing year on a pro rata basis 
according to the total assets held by each system.  
 
 (f) The Board of Trustees may combine the expense funds of the several systems 
for budgetary and administrative efficiency.  
 
 (g) (1) (i) On or before December 31 of each year, the Board of Trustees 
shall report to the General Assembly the actual amount spent for investment management 
services during the preceding fiscal year.  
 
   (ii) The report required under subparagraph (i) of this para graph 
shall include the amount of carried interest on any assets of the system.  
 
  (2) On or before December 31 each year, the Board of Trustees shall report 
to the General Assembly the actual amount spent for Investment Division operations 
during the prec eding fiscal year.  
 
[21–316. 
 
 (a) (1) In this section the following words have the meanings indicated.  
 
  (2) “Administrative fees” means the actual administrative and operational 
expenses incurred by the Board of Trustees and the State Retirement Agency as of June 30 
of the second prior fiscal year.  
 
  (3) “Library” means a library that is established or operates under the 
Education Article.  
 
  (4) “Local employer” means a participating employer other than the State.  
 
 (b) (1) Subject to paragraph (3) of this subsection, for each fiscal year, the 
State and each local employer shall pay to the Board of Trustees their pro rata shares of 
the administrative fees.  
 
  (2) The pro rata share of the administrative fees of the State and of each 
local employer for e ach fiscal year shall be based on the number of members of the several 
systems employed by the State or local employer as of June 30 of the second prior fiscal 
year compared to the total membership of the several systems as of that date.  
 
  (3) The State s hall pay the pro rata share under this section of each library.  
 WES MOORE, Governor  Ch. 764  
 
– 7 –  
  (4) The administrative fees used to determine the pro rata shares under 
this subsection may not include costs for the personnel and operational expenses of the 
Investment Division.  
 
 (c) As part of its annual budget submission for a fiscal year, the Board of Trustees 
shall certify to the Secretary of Budget and Management the percentage of the total 
membership of the several systems that is employed by the State, the libraries, and each 
local employer as of June 30 of the second prior fiscal year.  
 
 (d) (1) The Governor shall include in the budget bill an appropriation to the 
accumulation funds of the State Retirement and Pension System that equals the authorized 
administrative fees for the f iscal year.  
 
  (2) The amounts payable by the State under this section with respect to 
members employed by each State unit shall be charged against the budget of that unit.  
 
  (3) The State shall pay its pro rata share of the amount of administrative 
fees authorized in the State budget to the Board of Trustees on July 1 of the applicable 
fiscal year.  
 
 (e) (1) On or before October 1 each year, the Board of Trustees shall:  
 
   (i) certify to each local employer other than a library the amount 
payable by the local employer for the next fiscal year that is equal to the percentage 
certified under subsection (c) of this section multiplied by the amount of administrative 
fees; and  
 
   (ii) notify the Secretary of Budget and Management and the 
Department of Legislative Services of the certifications sent under item (i) of this 
paragraph.  
 
  (2) On or before October 1, January 1, April 16, and June 1 of the fiscal 
year immediately following the certification required in paragraph (1) of this subsection, 
each l ocal employer shall pay to the Board of Trustees 25% of the amount certified to the 
local employer by the Board of Trustees under paragraph (1) of this subsection.  
 
  (3) If a local employer does not pay the amounts required under this section 
within the t ime required, the local employer is liable for interest on delinquent amounts at 
a rate of 4% a year until payment.  
 
  (4) The Secretary of the Board of Trustees may allow a grace period not to 
exceed 10 calendar days for payment of the amounts certified u nder this section.  
 
Ch. 764  2025 LAWS OF MARYLAND   
 
– 8 –   (5) On notification by the Secretary of the Board of Trustees that a 
delinquency exists, the State Comptroller immediately shall exercise the right of setoff 
against any money due or coming due to that local employer from the State.  
 
 (f) On receipt of payments under this section, the Board of Trustees shall credit 
these amounts to the accumulation fund of the appropriate State system. ] 
 
 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That, notwithstanding Section 1 of 
this Act, on or before Ju ne 1, 2025, each local employer shall pay to the Board of Trustees 
for the State Retirement and Pension System the amounts certified to be paid by each local 
employer for fiscal year 2025 to the Board of Trustees in accordance with § 21 –316 of the 
State Pe rsonnel and Pensions Article in effect at the time of certification.  
 
 SECTION 2. 3. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That, for fiscal year 2026, the 
amounts for the administrative and operational expenses of the Board of Trustees for the 
State Retirement and P ension System and the State Retirement Agency shall be paid out 
of the accumulation fund of each State system on a pro rata basis.  
 
 SECTION 3. 4. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That, for fiscal year 2027 and 
each fiscal year thereafter , the administrative and  operational expenses of the Board of 
Trustees for the State Retirement and Pension System and the State Retirement Agency 
shall be included in the employer contribution rates certified by the Board of Trustees for 
the State Retirement and Pension System a s provided in Section 1 of this Act.  
 
 SECTION 4. 5. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect 
June 1, 2025.  
 
Approved by the Governor, May 20, 2025.  