 WES MOORE, Governor  Ch. 207  
 
– 1 – Chapter 207  
(House Bill 1046 ) 
 
AN ACT concerning  
 
Insurance Protections for Vehicle Service Contracts   
Mechanical Repair Contracts – Technical Service Bulletins  
 
FOR the purpose of establishing that a licensed vehicle dealer, an obligor, or an agent that 
sells mechanical repair contracts for motor vehicles may not make deceptive or 
misleading statements regarding the mechanical repair contract and shall ensure 
that testimonials of any of their endorsers are truthful, accurate, and not deceptive  
prohibiting a mechanical repair contract from containing a provision precluding 
coverage for service to a motor vehicle for issues identified in a technical service 
bulletin and prohibiting the denial of a service claim for such an issue by certain 
persons ; and generally relating to technical service bulletins and  mechanical repair 
contracts for motor vehicles.  
 
BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,  
 Article – Com mercial Law  
Section 14 –404 
 Annotated Code of Maryland  
 (2013 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)  
 
BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,  
 Article – Transportation  
Section 15 –311.2(a) and (e) through (h)  
 Annotated Code of Maryland  
 (2020 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)  
 
BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,  
 Article – Transportation  
Section 15 –311.2(i)  
 Annotated Code of Maryland  
 (2020 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)  
 
BY adding to  
 Article – Commercial Law  
 Section  14–404.1  
 Annotated Code of Maryland  
 (2013 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)  
 
 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND, 
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:  
 
Article – Commercial Law  
Ch. 207  2025 LAWS OF MARYLAND   
 
– 2 –  
14–404. 
 
 (a) (1) A guarantor shall fulfill the guarantor’s guaranty according to its 
terms:  
 
   (i) Within a reasonable time; and  
 
   (ii) For the stated period of the guaranty or, if no period is stated, for 
a reasonable period of time.  
 
  (2) A provider shall fulfill the obligations under  the service contract 
according to its terms:  
 
   (i) At or within the period stated in the service contract, or if no 
period is stated, within a reasonable time; and  
 
   (ii) For the stated duration of the service contract.  
 
 (b) (1) (i) A guaranty is extended automatically when a guarantor fails to 
repair successfully a malfunctioning or defective product within the guaranty period.  
 
   (ii) The guaranty does not terminate until the consumer product 
successfully performs its intended function for the r emaining period of the guaranty plus a 
period equal to the time of repair.  
 
  (2) (i) A service contract is extended automatically when the provider 
fails to perform the services under the service contract.  
 
   (ii) The service contract does not terminate until the services are 
provided in accordance with the terms of the service contract.  
 
 (c) If a guaranty fails to disclose the information required by § 14 –403 of this 
subtitle, the guarantor shall, without charge and within a reasonable period of time:  
 
  (1) Repair a malfunctioning or defective consumer product; or  
 
  (2) If repair is not commercially practicable or cannot be timely made, 
replace the malfunctioning or defective consumer product.  
 
 (d) (1) If a guarantor is unable to fulfill the terms of the guaranty within 10 
days of the tender or delivery of a consumer product to the guarantor, the guarantor shall 
provide on request of the person guaranteed a brief written explanation of the reasons for 
the delay.  
 
 WES MOORE, Governor  Ch. 207  
 
– 3 –   (2) If a provider is unable to fulfil l the terms of the service contract within 
10 days after the date on which the provider is required to perform obligations under the 
service contract, the provider shall provide on request of the person guaranteed a brief 
written explanation of the reasons  for the delay.  
 
Article – Transportation  
 
15–311.2.  
 
 (a) (1) In this section the following words have the meanings indicated.  
 
  (2) “Agent” means a business entity that is authorized by an obligor or a 
licensed vehicle dealer to sell a mechanical repair  contract.  
 
  (3) (i) “Mechanical repair contract” means any agreement or contract 
sold by a licensed vehicle dealer, an obligor, or an agent under which the obligor agrees to 
perform over a fixed period of time, for a specific duration, and for a specific  identifiable 
price, provided that the purchase of the contract is optional to the purchaser, any of the 
following services:  
 
    1. The repair, replacement, or maintenance of a motor 
vehicle, or the indemnification for the repair, replacement, or maintena nce of a motor 
vehicle, for the operational or structural failure of the motor vehicle due to a defect in 
materials, workmanship, or normal wear and tear, with or without additional provisions 
for incidental payment of indemnity for services including towi ng, rental and emergency 
road service, and road hazard protection;  
 
    2. The repair, replacement, or maintenance of a motor 
vehicle for the operational or structural failure of one or more parts or systems of the motor 
vehicle brought about by the failur e of an additive product to perform as represented;  
 
    3. The repair or replacement of tires or wheels on a motor 
vehicle damaged as a result of coming into contact with road hazards, including potholes, 
rocks, wood debris, metal parts, glass, plastic, c urbs, or composite scraps;  
 
    4. The removal and repair of dents, dings, or creases on a 
motor vehicle using the process of paintless dent removal;  
 
    5. The repair of chips or cracks in, or the replacement of, 
motor vehicle windshields as a result of damage caused by road hazards;  
 
    6. The replacement of a motor vehicle key or key fob if the 
key or key fob becomes inoperable or is lost or stolen; or  
 
    7. Other services or products that may be approved by the 
Insurance Commissioner if consistent w ith the provisions of this section.  
Ch. 207  2025 LAWS OF MARYLAND   
 
– 4 –  
   (ii) “Mechanical repair contract” includes extended warranties and 
extended service contracts.  
 
   (iii) “Mechanical repair contract” does not include:  
 
    1. Warranties under the Magnuson –Moss Warranty Act, 15 
U.S.C. § 2301, et seq.;  
 
    2. Contracts or agreements for regular maintenance only; or  
 
    3. An agreement between a motor club, as defined in §  
26–101 of the Insurance Article, and a member or subscriber of the motor club.  
 
  (4) (i) “Obligor” means the person specified in a mechanical repair 
contract that is contractually obligated to perform the services set forth in the mechanical 
repair contract.  
 
   (ii) “Obligor” does not include an insurer that provides insurance 
coverage in accordance with subsect ion (b) of this section.  
 
 (e) A mechanical repair contract shall be offered in addition to any express 
warranty originally included as part of the contract for sale of a new motor vehicle.  
 
 (f) A mechanical repair contract shall clearly and conspicuously  set forth the date 
when the warranty begins.  
 
 (g) A mechanical repair contract shall clearly and conspicuously set forth the date 
or the odometer reading at which the warranty expires and the name and address of the 
insurer issuing the policy of insuranc e as described in subsection (b) of this section.  
 
 (h) The repair of a malfunction or defect covered under a mechanical repair 
contract shall include the cost of the teardown and diagnosing the malfunction or defect.  
 
 (i) (1) The provisions of the Maryland Consumer Products Guaranty Act, Title 
14, Subtitle 4 of the Commercial Law Article, apply to a mechanical repair contract sold in 
the State.  
 
  (2) IN ADDITION TO THE RE QUIREMENTS FOR LICEN SED VEHICLE  
DEALERS , OBLIGORS , AND AGENTS ESTABLISH ED UNDE R § 14–404 OF THE  
COMMERCIAL LAW ARTICLE , A LICENSED VEHICLE D EALER , AN OBLIGOR , OR AN  
AGENT : 
 
   (I) MAY NOT MAKE DECEPTIV E OR MISLEADING STAT EMENTS  
REGARDING A MECHANIC AL REPAIR CONTRACT ; AND  
 WES MOORE, Governor  Ch. 207  
 
– 5 –  
   (II) SHALL ENSURE THAT TES TIMONIALS OF ANY OF THEIR  
ENDORSERS ARE TRUTHF UL, ACCURATE , AND NOT DECEPTIVE . 
 
14–404.1.  
 
 (A) A MECHANICAL REPAIR CO NTRACT UNDER § 15–311.2  OF THE 
TRANSPORTATION ARTICLE MAY NOT CONTA IN A PROVISION PRECL UDING 
COVERAGE  SOLELY  FOR AN ISSUE WITH A MOTOR VEHICLE IDENTI FIED IN A 
TECHNICAL SERVICE BU LLETIN . 
 
 (B) A GUARANTOR OR PROVIDE R MAY NOT DENY A MEC HANICAL REPAIR 
CONTRACT CLAIM  SOLELY  BECAUSE THE DIAGNOSE D ISSUE WITH THE MOT OR 
VEHICLE FOR WHICH TH E CLAIM WAS MADE WAS  IDENTIFIED IN A TECH NICAL 
SERVICE BULLETIN .  
 
 SECTION 2. A ND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect 
October 1, 2025.  
 
Approved by the Governor, April 22, 2025.  