 WES MOORE, Governor  Ch. 193  
 
– 1 – Chapter 193  
(House Bill 1141 ) 
 
AN ACT concerning  
 
Baltimore County  – Alcohol ic Beverages – Change of Location  
 
FOR the purpose of  establishing an additional circumstance under which the Board of 
License Commissioners for Baltimore County may approve a change of location for a 
certain alcoholic beverages license; and generally relating to alcoholic beverages 
license s in Baltimore Cou nty. 
 
BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,  
 Article – Alcoholic Beverages and Cannabis  
Section 13 –102 
 Annotated Code of Maryland  
 (2024 Replacement Volume)  
 
BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,  
 Article – Alcoholic Beverages and Cannabis  
Section 13 –1702  
 Annotated Code of Maryland  
 (2024 Replacement Volume)  
 
 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND, 
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:  
 
Article – Alcoholic Beverages and Cannabis  
 
13–102. 
 
 This title applies only in Baltimore County.  
 
13–1702.  
 
 (a) If the Board approves an application from a contract purchaser, an owner of 
the location, or a developer under § 13 –1404 of this title, the applicant may apply to transfer 
the license to an operator of the type of business for which the license was approved if:  
 
  (1) the license is for a location in the site for which the license was 
approved; and  
 
  (2) the application for transfer occurs within 5 years after the original 
application for the site is approved or construction at the location is completed, whichever 
is later.  
 
Ch. 193  2025 LAWS OF MARYLAND   
 
– 2 –  (b) Unless otherwise prohibited by law, the Board may approve a change of 
location of a license issued under § 13 –1404 of this title if:  
 
  (1) the license holder has engaged in an active alcoholic beverages business 
under the license for at least 1 year before applying for the change; [or] 
 
  (2) (i) the license holder has not engaged in an active alcoholic 
beverages business under the license; and  
 
   (ii) the Boa rd approved a change of location of the license from 
another location within the same [county ] election district at least 5 years before the 
application for the change of location under this item ; OR 
 
  (3) THE LICENSE WAS ORIG INALLY ISSUED WITHIN  THE SAME  
ELECTION DISTRICT AN D HAS BEE N AT THE SAME LOCATI ON FOR AT LEAST  10 
YEARS . 
 
 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act is an emergency 
measure, is necessary for the immediate preservation of the public health or safety, has 
been passed by a yea and nay vote supported by three –fifths of all the members elected to 
each of the two Houses of the General Assembly, and shall take effect from the date it is 
enacted.  
 
Approved by the Governor, April 22, 2025.  