 WES MOORE, Governor  Ch. 355  
 
– 1 – Chapter 355  
(House Bill 1223 ) 
 
AN ACT concerning  
 
State Board of Cosmetologists – Licensing – Eyelash Extensions  
 
FOR the purpose of authorizing the State Board of Cosmetologists to issue a limited license 
to provide eyelash extension services; altering the definition of “provide esthetic 
services” to include providing eyelash extension services; and generally relating to 
licensing and the State Board of Cosmetologists.  
 
BY repea ling and reenacting, without amendments,  
 Article – Business Occupations and Professions  
Section 5 –101(a)  
 Annotated Code of Maryland  
 (2018 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)  
 
BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,  
 Article – Business Occupations and Professions  
Section 5 –101(i), (l), (n), (o), and (p) through (r), 5 –205(b) and (c), 5 –301, 5 –305,  
5–310, 5 –404, 5 –501, and 5 –605 
 Annotated Code of Maryland  
 (2018 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)  
 
BY adding to  
 Article – Business O ccupations and Professions  
Section 5 –101(p)  
 Annotated Code of Maryland  
 (2018 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)  
 
 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND, 
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:  
 
Article – Business Occupation s and Professions  
 
5–101. 
 
 (a) In this title the following words have the meanings indicated.  
 
 (i) (1) “License” means, unless the context requires otherwise, a license issued 
by the Board.  
 
  (2) “License” includes, unless the context requires otherwise, each of the 
following licenses:  
 
Ch. 355  2025  LAWS OF MARYLAND   
 
– 2 –    (i) a license to practice cosmetology;  
 
   (ii) a license to practice as a senior cosmetologist;  
 
   (iii) a limited license to provide esthetic services;  
 
   (iv) a limited license to provide hair services;  
 
   (v) a limited license to provide hair services – blow drying; [and] 
 
   (vi) a limited license to provide nail technician services ; AND  
 
   (VII) A LIMITED LICENSE TO  PROVIDE EYELASH EXTE NSION 
SERVICES . 
 
 (l) (1) “Limited license” means a license issued  by the Board to practice 
cosmetology as limited in § 5 –301 of this title.  
 
  (2) “Limited license” includes, unless the context requires otherwise, each 
of the following licenses:  
 
   (i) a limited license to provide esthetic services;  
 
   (ii) a limited license to provide hair services;  
 
   (iii) a limited license to provide hair services – blow drying; [and] 
 
   (iv) a limited license to provide nail technician services ; AND  
 
   (V) A LIMITED LICENSE TO  PROVIDE EYELASH EXTE NSION 
SERVICES . 
 
 (n) (1) “Practice cosmetology” means to engage in any of the following for 
compensation:  
 
   (i) providing hair services;  
 
   (ii) arching or dyeing eyebrows;  
 
   (iii) dyeing eyelashes;  
 
   (iv) providing esthetic services; [or] 
 
   (v) providing nail technician services ; OR 
 
 WES MOORE, Governor  Ch. 355  
 
– 3 –    (VI) PROVIDING EYELASH EX TENSION SERVICES . 
 
  (2) The practice of cosmetology does not include:  
 
   (i) the mere sale, fitting, or styling of wigs or hairpieces;  
 
   (ii) the mere shampooing of hair; or  
 
   (iii) a service that results in tension on hair strands or roots by 
twisting, wrapping, weaving, extending, locking, or braiding by hand or mechanical device, 
provided that the service does not include the application of dyes, reactive chemicals, or 
other preparations to alter the color of the hair or to straighten, curl, or alter the structure 
of the hair.  
 
 (o) (1) “Provide esthetic services” means to provide to an individual, for 
compensation, the service of:  
 
   (i) cleansing, exercising,  exfoliating,  massaging, cosmetic 
microneedling, stimulating,  toning,  or performing any other similar procedure on the skin 
or scalp by electrical, mechanical, or any other means;  
 
   (ii) applying to the face , body, or scalp  an alcohol, cream, lotion, 
astringent, or cosmetic prep aration; [or] 
 
   (iii) removing superfluous hair by the use of electrical, mechanical, 
or any means other than by the use of a laser light –based device ; OR 
 
   (IV) PROVIDING EYELASH EX TENSION SERVICES .  
 
  (2) “Provide esthetic services” includes:  
 
   (i) applying eyelash extensions;  
 
   (ii) performing superficial exfoliation treatments of the epidermis 
using professional and other commercially available products or devices;  
 
   (iii) performing treatments for the relaxation, hydration, contouring, 
and beautification of the face, skin, body, eyelashes, or eyebrows; and  
 
   (iv) performing nonablative skin rejuvenation.  
 
  (3) “Provide esthetic services” does not include:  
 
   (i) the diagnosis of illness, disease, or injury; or  
 
   (ii) performing ablati on of the dermis or hypodermis.  
Ch. 355  2025  LAWS OF MARYLAND   
 
– 4 –  
 (P) “PROVIDE EYELASH EXTEN SION SERVICES ” MEANS TO PROVIDE TO AN 
INDIVIDUAL , FOR COMPENSATION , THE SERVICE OF : 
 
  (1) CLEANING THE EYE ARE A; 
 
  (2) APPLYING : 
 
   (I) EYELASH PRIMERS AND ADHESIVES ; 
 
   (II) EYELASH EXTENSIONS ; AND 
 
   (III) SEALANT ; OR 
 
  (3) DRYING THE EYE AREA FOR EYELASH EXTENSIO NS. 
 
 [(p)] (Q) “Provide hair services” means to provide to an individual for 
compensation the service of beautifying, cleaning, or embellishing the hair of the individual  
by: 
 
  (1) arranging the hair;  
 
  (2) bleaching the hair;  
 
  (3) cleansing the hair;  
 
  (4) coloring the hair;  
 
  (5) curling the hair;  
 
  (6) cutting the hair;  
 
  (7) dressing the hair;  
 
  (8) singeing the hair;  
 
  (9) permanent waving the hair;  
 
  (10) waving the hair; or  
 
  (11) performing any other similar procedure intended to beautify, clean, or 
embellish the hair.  
 
 WES MOORE, Governor  Ch. 355  
 
– 5 –  [(q)] (R) “Provide hair services – blow drying” means to provide to an individual 
for compensation the service of beautifying, cleaning , or arranging the hair of the individual 
by: 
 
  (1) arranging the hair;  
 
  (2) cleansing the hair;  
 
  (3) curling the hair;  
 
  (4) dressing the hair;  
 
  (5) blow drying the hair;  
 
  (6) singeing the hair; or  
 
  (7) performing any other similar procedure intended to beautify, clean, or 
arrange the hair.  
 
 [(r)] (S) “Provide nail technician services” means to provide to an individual, for 
compensation, the service of:  
 
  (1) manicuring or pedicuring the individual’s nails;  
 
  (2) applying artificial nail enhancement products; or  
 
  (3) maintaining artificial nail enhancement products.  
 
5–205. 
 
 (b) (1) The Board shall adopt regulations that establish detailed curriculum 
standards for use by the State Board of Education or the Maryland Higher Education 
Comm ission in approving applications for instruction in the practice of cosmetology, the 
provision of esthetic services, THE PROVISION OF EYE LASH EXTENSION SERVI CES, the 
provision of hair services, and the provision of nail technician services at public school s or 
private career schools.  
 
  (2) The curriculum standards established under paragraph (1) of this 
subsection shall:  
 
   (i) incorporate modern methods and practices for:  
 
    1. practicing cosmetology;  
 
    2. providing esthetic services;  
 
Ch. 355  2025  LAWS OF MARYLAND   
 
– 6 –     3. PROVID ING EYELASH EXTENSIO N SERVICES ; 
 
    [3.] 4. providing hair services;  
 
    [4.] 5. providing hair services – blow drying; and  
 
    [5.] 6. providing nail technician services;  
 
   (ii) include a reference to each topic and the emphasis of each topic 
required of a comprehensive curriculum in the appropriate licensing area; and  
 
   (iii) be reviewed and updated periodically as determined by the 
Board.  
 
 (c) (1) [Beginning October 1, 2018, the ] THE Board shall require a licensee 
renewing a license to complete at least six credit hours of continuing education approved 
by the Board.  
 
  (2) The Board shall adopt regulations that set standards for continuing 
education courses that, at a minimum, require : 
 
   (i) two hours of training in health, safety, and welfare subjects; and  
 
   (ii) four hours of training in general elective courses.  
 
5–301. 
 
 (a) Except as otherwise provided in this title, an individual shall be licensed by 
the Board to practice cos metology before the individual may practice cosmetology in the 
State.  
 
 (b) If an individual holds the appropriate limited license, the individual may 
practice cosmetology in a manner limited to:  
 
  (1) providing esthetic services;  
 
  (2) PROVIDING EYELASH  EXTENSION SERVICES ; 
 
  [(2)] (3) providing hair services;  
 
  [(3)] (4) providing hair services – blow drying; or  
 
  [(4)] (5) providing nail technician services.  
 
 (c) Subsection (a) of this section does not apply to:  
 WES MOORE, Governor  Ch. 355  
 
– 7 –  
  (1) a student while the student practices cosmetology in accordance with § 
5–302 or § 5 –303 of this subtitle; or  
 
  (2) a registered apprentice.  
 
5–305. 
 
 (a) To qualify for a limited license to practice cosmetology, an applicant shall be 
an individual who meets the requirements of this section.  
 
 (b) An applicant for a limited license to provide esthetic services shall:  
 
  (1) be at least 17 years old;  
 
  (2) have completed successfully a 9th grade education or the equivalent; 
and 
 
  (3) have received training by:  
 
   (i) serving as a re gistered apprentice for at least 6 months as 
provided under §§ 5 –404 and 5 –405 of this title; or  
 
   (ii) successfully completing at least 600 hours of instruction in 
providing esthetic services in a cosmetology school approved by the State Department of 
Education or the Maryland Higher Education Commission in consultation with the Board.  
 
 (C) AN APPLICANT FOR A LI MITED LICENSE TO PRO VIDE EYELASH 
EXTENSION SERVICES S HALL : 
 
  (1) BE AT LEAST 17 YEARS OLD ; 
 
  (2) HAVE COMPLETED SUCCE SSFULLY A 9TH GRADE EDUCATION OR 
THE EQUIVALENT ; AND 
 
  (3) (I) HAVE RECEIVED TRAINI NG BY : 
 
    1. SERVING AS A REGISTE RED APPRENTICE FOR A T 
LEAST 3 MONTHS AS PROVIDED U NDER §§ 5–404 AND 5–405 OF THIS TITLE ; OR 
 
    2. SUCCESSFULLY COMPLET ING AT LEAST 100 HOURS 
OF INSTRUCTION  IN PROVIDING EYELASH  EXTENSION SERVICES I N A COSMETOLOGY 
SCHOOL APPROVED BY T HE STATE DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION OR THE 
MARYLAND HIGHER EDUCATION COMMISSION IN CONSULT ATION WITH THE 
BOARD ; OR 
Ch. 355  2025  LAWS OF MARYLAND   
 
– 8 –  
   (II) PASS A PRACTICAL AND WRITTEN EXAMINATION  
ADMINISTERED  BY THE BOARD . 
 
 [(c)] (D) An applicant for a limited license to provide hair services shall:  
 
  (1) be at least 17 years old;  
 
  (2) have completed successfully a 9th grade education or the equivalent; 
and 
 
  (3) have received training by:  
 
   (i) serving as a registered apprentice for at least 15 months as 
provided under §§ 5 –404 and 5 –405 of this title; or  
 
   (ii) successfully completing at least 1,200 hours of instruction 
providing hair services in a cosmetology school approved by the State Department of 
Education or the Maryland Higher Education Commission in consultation with the Board.  
 
 [(d)] (E) An applicant for a limited license to provide hair services – blow drying 
shall:  
 
  (1) be at least 17 years old;  
 
  (2) have completed successfully a 9th grad e education or the equivalent; 
and 
 
  (3) have received training by successfully completing at least 350 hours of 
instruction providing hair services – blow drying in a cosmetology school approved by the 
State Department of Education or the Maryland Higher  Education Commission in 
consultation with the Board.  
 
 [(e)] (F) An applicant for a limited license to provide nail technician services 
shall:  
 
  (1) be at least 17 years old;  
 
  (2) have successfully completed a 9th grade education or the equivalent; 
and 
 
  (3) have received training by:  
 
   (i) serving as a registered apprentice for at least 3 months as 
provided under §§ 5 –404 and 5 –405 of this title; or  
 
 WES MOORE, Governor  Ch. 355  
 
– 9 –    (ii) successfully completing at least 250 hours of instruction in 
providing nail technician servi ces in a cosmetology school approved by the State 
Department of Education or the Maryland Higher Education Commission in consultation 
with the Board.  
 
 [(f)] (G) If an applicant is licensed to practice as an esthetician, EYELASH 
EXTENSION TECHNICIAN , hairs tylist, hairstylist – blow drying technician, or nail 
technician in another state or foreign country, the applicant meets the training 
requirements of this section if the applicant has held a limited license in the other state or 
foreign country and has ac tively practiced in the other state or foreign country for a period 
of 6 months.  
 
 [(g)] (H) An applicant for a limited license shall pass an examination given by 
the Board under this subtitle.  
 
5–310. 
 
 (a) Subject to subsections (b), (c), (d), [and] (e), AND (F) of this section and while 
a license to practice cosmetology is in effect, it authorizes the licensee to practice 
cosmetology.  
 
 (b) While a limited license to provide esthetic services is in effect, it authorizes 
the licensee to provide only esthe tic services.  
 
 (C) WHILE A LIMITED LICEN SE TO PROVIDE EYELAS H EXTENSION SERVICES  
IS IN EFFECT , IT AUTHORIZES THE LI CENSEE TO PROVIDE ON LY EYELASH 
EXTENSION SERVICES . 
 
 [(c)] (D) While a limited license to provide hair services is in effect, the license 
authorizes the licensee to provide only hair services.  
 
 [(d)] (E) While a limited license to provide hair services – blow drying is in effect, 
the license authorizes the licensee to provide only hair services – blow drying.  
 
 [(e)] (F) While a limited lic ense to provide nail technician services is in effect, it 
authorizes the licensee to provide only nail technician services.  
 
5–404. 
 
 (a) While registration as an apprentice is in effect, the registration authorizes the 
individual to learn to practice cosm etology or any limited practice of cosmetology:  
 
  (1) in a: 
 
   (i) beauty salon that holds a beauty salon permit; or  
 
Ch. 355  2025  LAWS OF MARYLAND   
 
– 10 –    (ii) barbershop that holds a barbershop permit; and  
 
  (2) under the supervision of:  
 
   (i) if learning to practice cosmetology, a l icensed senior 
cosmetologist;  
 
   (ii) if learning to provide esthetic services, a licensed senior 
cosmetologist or a licensed esthetician with 2 years’ experience;  
 
   (III) IF LEARNING TO PROVI DE EYELASH EXTENSION  SERVICES :  
 
    1. BEGINNING JANUARY 1, 2027 , A LICENSED SENIOR 
COSMETOLOGIST WHO HA S COMPLETED CONTINUI NG EDUCATION REQUIRE MENTS 
IN PROVIDING EYELASH  EXTENSION SERVICES ; OR 
 
    2. A LICENSED EYELASH E XTENSION TECHNICIAN WITH 
2 YEARS’ EXPERIENCE ;  
 
   [(iii)] (IV) if learning to provide hair services, a licensed senior 
cosmetologist or a licensed hairstylist with 2 years’ experience; and  
 
   [(iv)] (V) if learning to provide nail technician services, a licensed 
senior cosmetologist or a licensed nail technician with 2 years’ experience.  
 
 (b) A licensed senior cosmetologist may directly train and supervise not more 
than two apprentices learning to practice cosmetology or any limited practice of 
cosmetology specified in subsection (a)(2) of this section.  
 
 (c) An individual with one of the limit ed licenses specified in subsection (a)(2) of 
this section who has at least 2 years of experience in that limited practice of cosmetology 
may directly train and supervise not more than two apprentices learning the same limited 
practice of cosmetology.  
 
5–501. 
 
 (a) A person shall hold a beauty salon permit issued by the Board before the 
person may operate a beauty salon in the State.  
 
 (b) A beauty salon may operate as a limited practice beauty salon by offering 
cosmetology services limited to:  
 
  (1) provi ding esthetic services;  
 
  (2) PROVIDING EYELASH EX TENSION SERVICES ; 
 WES MOORE, Governor  Ch. 355  
 
– 11 –  
  [(2)] (3) providing hair services;  
 
  [(3)] (4) providing hair services – blow drying; or  
 
  [(4)] (5) providing nail technician services.  
 
 (c) A separate beauty salon permit is requi red for each beauty salon that a person 
operates.  
 
5–605. 
 
 (a) Except as provided in §§ 5 –302 and 5 –303 of this title and subsection (b) of 
this section, a person may not practice cosmetology, provide esthetic services, PROVIDE 
EYELASH EXTENSION SE RVICES , provide hair services, provide hair services – blow 
drying, or provide nail technician services in any place other than:  
 
  (1) a beauty salon that holds a beauty salon permit; or  
 
  (2) a barbershop that holds a barbershop permit issued under Title 4 of this 
article.  
 
 (b) (1) A licensed cosmetologist, esthetician, EYELASH EXTENSION 
TECHNICIAN , hairstylist, hairstylist – blow dry technician, or nail technician may practice 
cosmetology and provide services in:  
 
   (i) a facility in which beautification –oriented medical services, 
authorized by the Maryland Department of Health, are provided;  
 
   (ii) the residence of an individual confined to the residence by reason 
of a physical or mental infirmity;  
 
   (iii) an assisted living facility as defined in § 19 –1801 of the Health – 
General Article;  
 
   (iv) a hospice facility defined in § 19 –901(c) of the Health – General 
Article;  
 
   (v) a nursing home as defined in § 19 –1401(e) of the Health – 
General Article; or  
 
   (vi) a hospital as defined in § 19 –301 of the  Health – General Article 
or a similar institution.  
 
  (2) To practice in any of the locations specified in this subsection:  
 
Ch. 355  2025  LAWS OF MARYLAND   
 
– 12 –    (i) the licensed cosmetologist, esthetician, EYELASH EXTENSION 
TECHNICIAN , hairstylist, hairstylist – blow dry technician, or n ail technician shall be 
sponsored by a beauty salon in which the cosmetologist, esthetician, hairstylist, hairstylist 
– blow dry technician, or nail technician is authorized to practice;  
 
   (ii) the patron to whom the services are rendered shall be a cust omer 
of the beauty salon; and  
 
   (iii) the services shall be rendered by appointment through the 
beauty salon.  
 
 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect 
October 1, 2025 .  
 
Approved by the Governor, May 6, 2025.  