 WES MOORE, Governor  Ch. 235  
 
– 1 – Chapter 235  
(House Bill 1228 ) 
 
AN ACT concerning  
 
Department of Commerce – Montgomery County Agricultural Reserve Study  
 
MC 15–25 
 
FOR the purpose of requiring the Department of  Commerce , in coordination with certain 
county agencies and organizations,  to study economic development in and  the tourist 
and visitor economy of the Montgomery County Agricultural Reserve and, on or 
before a certain date, report its findings to the membe rs of the Montgomery County 
Delegation to the General Assembly; and generally relating to the Montgomery 
County Agricultural Reserve.  
 
Preamble  
 
 WHEREAS, There has been a consensus for decades in Montgomery County in 
support of preserving the Montgomery  County Agricultural Reserve, a large segment of 
which is located in western Montgomery County; and  
 
 WHEREAS, The Montgomery County Agricultural Reserve was founded with the 
principal goal of preserving open space and land for agriculture; and  
 
 WHEREAS,  Farming remains the foundation of the Montgomery County 
Agricultural Reserve and Montgomery County has established a Department of Agriculture 
to help promote, support, and preserve farming and farmland; and  
 
 WHEREAS, The farming economy is a key focus o f Montgomery County and its 
Department of Agriculture and the farming economy is monitored and studied 
continuously; and  
 
 WHEREAS, Outside of farming, a significant part of the land in the Montgomery 
County Agricultural Reserve exists in the form of woodl ands, open spaces, parks, historic 
sites, and recreation areas of various kinds; and  
 
 WHEREAS, Small nonprofit organizations and businesses are a major part of the 
Montgomery County Agricultural Reserve and these organizations and businesses are 
reliant o n tourists and visitors, both locally and from throughout the Washington 
metropolitan area, to support their operations; now, therefore,  
 
 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND, 
That:  
 
Ch. 235  2025 LAWS OF MARYLAND   
 
– 2 –  (a) The Department of Commerce , in coordination  with the Montgomery County 
Planning Board, the Montgomery County Office of Agricultural Services, the University of 
Maryland Extension – Montgomery County, and Visit Montgomery,  shall study economic 
development in and  the tourist and visitor economy of th e Montgomery County Agricultural 
Reserve to develop:  
 
  (1) a deeper understanding of the tourist and visitor sector of  impact on  the 
Montgomery County Agricultural Reserve due to these sectors  impacts  being not as well 
understood as the agricultural secto r impact  of the reserve; and  
 
  (2) policies and recommendations to help the Montgomery County 
Agricultural Reserve thrive.  
 
 (b) In conducting the study required under subsection (a) of this section, the 
Department of Commerce, the Montgomery County Plan ning Board, the Montgomery 
County Office of Agricultural Services, the University of Maryland Extension – 
Montgomery County, and Visit Montgomery shall:  
 
  (1) examine how tourists and visitors view the Montgomery County 
Agricultural Reserve, including why  they visit, where they come from, and what attractions 
they find most compelling and why;  
 
  (2) (i) identify the small businesses, recreation sites, and historic sites 
that are located in the Montgomery County Agricultural Reserve; and  
 
   (ii) 1. analyz e how tourism and visitors contribute to these 
operations and their success;  
 
    2. assess and evaluate the barriers that may deter visitors 
from coming to the Montgomery County Agricultural Reserve; and  
 
    3. develop an overall assessment of economic development 
and the economic impact of tourism in the Montgomery County Agricultural Reserve; and  
 
  (3) make recommendations regarding policies and programs that can help 
promote and preserve the Montgomery County Agricultural Reserve and better support the 
small businesses, recreation sites, and historic sites that depend on the visitor and tourist 
economy . 
 
 (c) In meeting the requirements of subsections (a) and (b) of this section, the 
Department of Commerce, the Montgomery County Planning Board, the M ontgomery 
County Office of Agricultural Services, the University of Maryland Extension – 
Montgomery County, and Visit Montgomery shall, if data is available or the action required 
is necessary:  
 
 WES MOORE, Governor  Ch. 235  
 
– 3 –   (1) work with relevant local organizations to gather inform ation on visitor 
volume at the Montgomery County Agricultural Reserve and other key attractions in the 
area and how those visitors interact with other parts of the regional economy;  
 
  (2) engage with visitors, including by surveying visitors, to gather 
information about visitor behavior and attitudes;  
 
  (3) consider whether in –depth interviews with residents, businesses, and 
other stakeholders are necessary; and  
 
  (4) review existing data models to gather information on the upstream and 
downstream impac ts of visitation to the region.   
 
 (b) In conducting the study required under subsection (a) of this section, the 
Department of Commerce shall:  
 
  (1) (i) establish a geofence around the Montgomery County 
Agricultural Reserve and other key attractions in t he area; and  
 
   (ii) use geolocation technology to gather information on visitor 
volume and how those visitors interact with other parts of the regional economy;  
 
  (2) engage with visitors, including by surveying visitors, to gather 
information about vi sitor behavior and attitudes;  
 
  (3) consider whether in –depth interviews with residents, businesses, and 
other stakeholders are necessary; and  
 
  (4) review existing data models to gather information on the upstream and 
downstream impacts of visitation to the region.  
 
 (c) (d) The Department of Commerce : 
 
  (1) shall coordinate the preparation of, synthesize, and analyze the data 
made available for the study required under subsection (a) of this section; and  
 
  (2) may consult with government agencies, a cademic institutions, and 
stakeholders to complete the study required under this section.  
 
 (d) (1) (e) On or before June 30, 2026, the Department of Commerce shall report 
the findings of the study required under subsection (a) of  this section, in accordance with § 
2–1257 of the State Government Article, to the members of the Montgomery County 
Delegation to the General Assembly.  
 
  (2) In considering the data and its findings, the Department shall:  
 
Ch. 235  2025 LAWS OF MARYLAND   
 
– 4 –    (i) examine how tourists and visitors view the Montgomery County 
Agricultural Reserve, including why they visit, where they came from, and what attractions 
they found most compelling and why;  
 
   (ii) 1. identify the small businesses, recreation sites, and historic 
sites that are loca ted in the Montgomery County Agricultural Reserve; and  
 
    2. A. analyze how tourism and visitors contribute to 
these operations and their success;  
 
    B. assess and evaluate the barriers that may deter visitors 
from coming to the reserve; and  
 
    C. develop an overall assessment of the economic impact of 
tourism in the reserve; and  
 
   (iii) make recommendations regarding policies and programs that 
can help promote and preserve the Montgomery County Agricultural Reserve and better 
support the small busi nesses, recreation sites, and historic sites that depend on the visitor 
and tourist economy.  
 
 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect July 
1, 2025.  
 
Approved by the Governor, April 22, 2025.  