 WES MOORE, Governor  Ch. 51  
 
– 1 – Chapter 51  
(House Bill 144 ) 
 
AN ACT concerning  
 
Public Employee Relations Act – Alterations  
 
FOR the purpose of altering certain provisions of the Public Employee Relations Act, 
including adding the definition of interested employee organization, altering the 
timing of exclusive representative access to new employees, clarifying the 
responsibilities of certain deputy directors, and clarifying the process for certain 
investigations  of unfair labor practices; and generally relating to alterations to the 
Public Employee Relations Act.  
 
BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,  
 Article – State Government  
Section 22 –101, 22 –207(c), 22 –305, 22 –306(b), and 22 –307(a) and (f)  
 Annotated Code of Maryland  
 (2021 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)  
 
BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,  
 Article – State Government  
Section 22 –405(a)  
 Annotated Code of Maryland  
 (2021 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)  
 
 SECTION 1 . BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND, 
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:  
 
Article – State Government  
 
22–101. 
 
 (a) In this title the following words have the meanings indicated.  
 
 (b) “Board” means the Public Employee Relations Board.  
 
 (c) Unless specifically provided otherwise, “day” means a calendar day.  
 
 (d) “Employee organization” means a labor organization in which public 
employees participate and that has as one of its primary purposes representing public 
employees.  
 
 (e) “Exclusive representative” means an employee organization that has been 
certified by the Board as an exclusive representative under Subtitle 4 of this title.  
 
Ch. 51  2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND   
 
– 2 –  (F) “INTERESTED EMPLOYEE O RGANIZATION ” MEANS : 
 
  (1) AN EMPLOYEE ORGANIZA TION ALREADY REPRESE NTING 
EMPLOYEES IN A BARGA INING UNIT ; OR 
 
  (2) A PETITIONER WHO HAS  MET THE SHOWING OF I NTEREST 
REQUIREMENT UNDER § 22–402 OF THIS TITLE . 
 
 [(f)] (G) “Lockout” means action taken by a public employer to:  
 
  (1) interrupt or prevent the continuity of the emp loyees’ usual work for the 
purpose and with the intent of coercing the employees into relinquishing rights guaranteed 
by this title; or  
 
  (2) bring economic pressure on employees for the purpose of securing the 
agreement of their executive representative to collective bargaining agreement terms.  
 
 [(g)] (H) “Public employee” means an individual who holds a position by 
appointment or employment in the service of a public employer with collective bargaining 
rights under Title 3 of the State Personnel and Pen sions Article or Title 6, Subtitle 4 or 5 
or Title 16, Subtitle 7 of the Education Article.  
 
 [(h)] (I) “Public employer” means:  
 
  (1) the State, including any unit, department, or instrumentality of the 
State;  
 
  (2) a community college listed under § 16 –702(b) of the Education Article; 
and 
 
  (3) a county board of education or the Baltimore City Board of School 
Commissioners.  
 
 [(i)] (J) (1) “Showing of interest form” means a written statement from a 
public employee who wishes to be represented by a petitioning employee organization for 
the purpose of collective bargaining.  
 
  (2) “Showing of interest form” includes:  
 
   (i) a union authorization card; or  
 
   (ii) a union membership card.  
 
 [(j)] (K) (1) “Strike” mean s any concerted action to impede the full and 
proper performance of employment duties in order to induce, influence, coerce, or enforce 
 WES MOORE, Governor  Ch. 51  
 
– 3 – demands for a change in wages, hours, terms, or other conditions of employment.  
 
  (2) “Strike” includes a total or part ial: 
 
   (i) refusal or failure to report to work;  
 
   (ii) refusal or failure to perform employment duties;  
 
   (iii) withdrawal from work;  
 
   (iv) work stoppage; or  
 
   (v) work slowdown.  
 
22–207. 
 
 (c) (1) Except as provided in paragraph (2) of this subsection and subject to 
paragraph (3) of this subsection, a public employer shall provide the exclusive 
representative at least 10 days’ notice of the start date of a new employee in a bargaining 
unit represented by the exclusive representative.  
 
  (2) A public employer may provide the exclusive representative with less 
than 10 days’ notice if there is an urgent need critical to the employer that was not 
reasonably foreseeable.  
 
  (3) The notice required under paragraph (1) of this subsection shall:  
 
   (i) be provided electronically to the local president or exclusive 
representative designee within 5 days of the [employee’s first check –in] START OF ANY 
CHECK–IN EVENT THE EMPLOYE R OBLIGATES THE EMPL OYEE TO ATTEND ; 
 
   (ii) except as provided in item (iii) of this paragraph, include the new 
employee’s name, unit, and all employee identification numbers, including Workday 
numbers;  
 
   (iii) exclude the new employee’s Social Security number; and  
 
   (iv) be considered confidential by an exclusive representativ e. 
 
  (4) (i) Except as provided in subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph, an 
exclusive representative may not disclose the information in a notice.  
 
   (ii) The exclusive representative may authorize a third –party 
contractor to use the information in a notice, as directed by the exclusive representative, to 
fulfill the exclusive representative’s statutory duties.  
 
Ch. 51  2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND   
 
– 4 – 22–305. 
 
 (a) The Board shall appoint:  
 
  (1) a deputy director PRIMARILY RESPONSIBL E for Executive Branch 
labor relations;  
 
  (2) a deputy di rector PRIMARILY RESPONSIBL E for public school labor 
relations; and  
 
  (3) a deputy director PRIMARILY RESPONSIBL E for public higher 
education labor relations.  
 
 (b) The deputy directors:  
 
  (1) are responsible to and serve at the pleasure of the Board;  
 
  (2) must have knowledge of and experience with labor issues and the 
subject matter area associated with their positions; and  
 
  (3) are entitled to the salary provided in the State budget.  
 
22–306. 
 
 (b) In addition to any other powers or duties provided for elsewhere in this title, 
Title 6, Subtitle 4 or 5 of the Education Article, Title 16, Subtitle 7 of the Education Article, 
and Title 3 of the State Personnel and Pensions Article, the Board may:  
 
  (1) establish procedures for, supervise the conduct of, and resolve disputes 
about elections for exclusive representatives;  
 
  (2) establish procedures for and resolve disputes about petitions for 
bargaining unit clarification;  
 
  (3) establish procedures for and resolve disputes about petitions and 
electio ns for decertification of an exclusive representative;  
 
  (4) investigate and take appropriate action in response to [complaints ] 
CHARGES  of unfair labor practices, including strikes and lockouts;  
 
  (5) establish procedures for and resolve disputes about the negotiability of 
bargaining subjects;  
 
  (6)  on application by an employee organization or public employer, 
determine that the applicant shall be designated as a joint public employer of public 
employees in an employer –employee bargaining unit determi ned in accordance with 
 WES MOORE, Governor  Ch. 51  
 
– 5 – Subtitle 4 of this title when such determination would best effectuate the purposes of this 
subtitle; and  
 
  (7) resolve matters as provided in §§ 6 –406, 6 –507, and 16 –707 of the 
Education Article.  
 
22–307. 
 
 (a) (1) If a party has b een charged with engaging in [or has engaged in ] an 
unfair labor practice, the appropriate deputy director shall investigate the charge.  
 
  (2) If the Board, through the deputy director’s investigation, finds that 
probable cause exists to support the charg e of an unfair labor practice, the Board shall:  
 
   (i) issue a complaint against the party [stating ] STATED IN  the 
[charges ] CHARGE ; and  
 
   (ii) not less than 15 days after issuing the complaint, issue a notice 
of a hearing before the Board or the Office  of Administrative Hearings.  
 
 (f) The appropriate deputy director shall provide relevant information gathered 
in the investigation of a charge [or complaint ] of unfair labor practices to the Board [and 
the Office of Administrative Hearings ]. 
 
22–405. 
 
 (a) (1) Within 5 days after determining that a valid petition has been 
submitted under § 22 –402 of this subtitle, the Board shall notify interested employee 
organizations of the pending election petition.  
 
  (2) Within 10 days after determining that a valid petition has been 
submitted under § 22 –402 of this subtitle, the public employer, as appropriate, shall make 
available to all interested employee organizations reasonable and equivalent means to 
communicate by mail and in person with each employee in the a ppropriate bargaining unit 
for the purpose of soliciting the employee’s vote in an election held under this section.  
 
 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect July 
1, 2024.  
 
Approved by the Governor, April 9, 2024.  