 WES MOORE, Governor  Ch. 850  
 
– 1 – Chapter 850  
(House Bill 411 ) 
 
AN ACT concerning  
 
Public Health – Maryland Department of Health – Reports on Standing Orders 
and Opioid Overdose Reversal Drugs – Standing Orders  
 
FOR the purpose of requiring a licensed health care provider, when issuing a standing order 
for an opioid reversal drug, to allow an individual to choose any formulation of any 
opioid reversal drug approved by the federal Food and Drug Administration;  
requiring the Maryland Department of Health, on or before certain dates, to report 
to certain committees of the General Assembly on opioid overdose reversal drugs and 
standing orders;  and generally relating to reports on  standing orders for and opioid 
overdose reversal drugs.  
 
BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,  
 Article – Health – General  
Section 13 –3101(a) and (e)  
 Annotated Code of Maryland  
 (2023 Replacement Volume)  
 
BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,  
 Article – Health – General  
Section 13 –3106  
 Annotated Code of Maryland  
 (2023 Replacement Volume)  
 
 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND, 
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:  on or before December 1, 2024, December 1, 
2025, and December 1, 2026,  the Maryland Department of Health shall report to the Senate 
Finance Committee and the House Health and Government Operations Committee, in 
accordance with § 2 –1257 of the State Government Article, on:  
 
  (1) current opioid overdose reversal drugs approve d by the federal Food 
and Drug Administration; and  
 
  (2) for any current opioid overdose reversal drug approved by the federal 
Food and Drug Administration, whether the Department has added the drug to a standing 
order, and if not, the reasons why the dru g has not been added.  
 
 
Article – Health – General  
 
13–3101.  
 
Ch. 850  2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND   
 
– 2 –  (a) In this subtitle the following words have the meanings indicated.  
 
 (e) “Standing order” means a written instruction for the prescribing and 
dispensing of an opioid overdose reversal drug approved by the federal Food and Drug 
Administration in accordance with § 13 –3106 of this subtitle.  
 
13–3106.  
 
 (a) A licensed health care provider with prescribing authority may prescribe and 
dispense an opioid overdose reversal drug approved by the federal Food and Drug 
Administration to an individual who:  
 
  (1) Is believed by the licensed health care provider to be at risk of 
experiencing an opioid overdose; or  
 
  (2) Is in a position to assist an individual at risk of experiencing an opioid 
overdo se. 
 
 (b) (1) A licensed health care provider with prescribing authority may 
prescribe and dispense opioid overdose reversal drugs approved by the federal Food and 
Drug Administration by issuing a standing order if the licensed health care provider:  
 
   (i) Is employed by the Department or a local health department; or  
 
   (ii) Has a written agreement with an authorized private or public 
entity under § 13 –3104 of this subtitle.  
 
  (2) WHEN ISSUING A STANDI NG ORDER FOR AN OPIO ID REVERSAL  
DRUG UNDER PARAGRAPH  (1) OF THIS SUBSECTION , A LICENSED HEALTH CA RE 
PROVIDER SHALL ALLOW  THE INDIVIDUAL TO CH OOSE ANY FORMULATION  OF ANY  
OPIOID REVERSAL DRUG  APPROVED BY THE FEDE RAL FOOD AND DRUG  
ADMINISTRATION . 
 
  [(2)] (3) A licensed health care provider with prescribing au thority who 
issues a standing order under paragraph (1) of this subsection may delegate the dispensing 
of opioid overdose reversal drugs approved by the federal Food and Drug Administration to 
an employee or a volunteer of an authorized private or public e ntity in accordance with a 
written agreement under § 13 –3104 of this subtitle.  
 
  [(3)] (4) Any licensed health care provider who has dispensing authority 
also may dispense an opioid overdose reversal drug approved by the federal Food and Drug 
Administrati on to any individual in accordance with a standing order issued by a licensed 
health care provider with prescribing authority in accordance with this subsection.  
 
 WES MOORE, Governor  Ch. 850  
 
– 3 –  (c) A pharmacist may dispense opioid overdose reversal drugs approved by the 
federal Food an d Drug Administration in accordance with a therapy management contract 
under Title 12, Subtitle 6A of the Health Occupations Article.  
 
 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect 
October 1, 2024.  
 
Approved by the Governor, May 1 6, 2024.  