 WES MOORE, Governor  Ch. 63  
 
– 1 – Chapter 63  
(House Bill 634 ) 
 
AN ACT concerning  
 
Maryland Longitudinal Data System  Center – Student Information  – United 
States Census Bureau  
 
FOR the purpose of authorizing the Governing Board of the Maryland Longitudinal Data 
System Center to authorize the Center to send  certain student information  to the 
United States Census Bureau; and generally relating to the Maryland Longitudinal 
Data System Center.  
 
BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,  
 Article – Education  
Section 24 –701(a) and (e)  
 Annotated Code of Maryland  
 (2022 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)  
 
BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,  
 Article – Education  
Section 24 –703.2 
 Annotated Code of Maryland  
 (2022 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)  
 
 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND, 
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:  
 
Article – Education  
 
24–701. 
 
 (a) In this subtitle the following words have the meanings  indicated.  
 
 (e) “Governing Board” means the Governing Board of the Maryland Longitudinal 
Data System Center.  
 
24–703.2.  
 
 (a) (1) In this section the following words have the meanings indicated.  
 
  (2) “Aggregated data” means de –identified data that is summarized by 
type of program of study or educational institution.  
 
  (3) “Student information” means:  
 
Ch. 63  2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND   
 
– 2 –    (i) Student Social Security number;  
 
   (ii) Program of study;  
 
   (iii) Enrollment; and  
 
   (iv) Name of educational institution.  
 
  (4) “Tax inform ation” means income tax records, wage information, and 
other data stored by the Comptroller.  
 
 (b) (1) The Center and the Comptroller jointly shall develop a protocol for 
research purposes for the:  
 
   (i) Center to send student information to the Comptrol ler; 
 
   (ii) Comptroller to match student information to tax information; 
and 
 
   (iii) Comptroller to produce aggregated data from the matched 
information on the average amount of wage or salary earnings from self –employment or 
other sources of income fo r individuals within each educational institution or program of 
study.  
 
  (2) The Comptroller may not produce any aggregated data that may be 
identifiable based on the size or uniqueness of the population under consideration.  
 
 (c) The Center and the Compt roller jointly shall develop data handling and 
security standards for the Comptroller to utilize for the protocol, including:  
 
  (1) Data retention and disposition policies;  
 
  (2) Authorized access and authentication for authorized access policies;  
 
  (3) Privacy compliance standards; and  
 
  (4) Breach notification and procedures.  
 
 (d) The Comptroller shall comply with any data privacy and security standards 
in accordance with the federal Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act and other 
relevant privac y laws and policies.  
 
 (E) THE GOVERNING BOARD MAY AUTHORIZE T HE CENTER TO SEND 
STUDENT INFORMATION TO THE UNITED STATES CENSUS BUREAU . 
 
 WES MOORE, Governor  Ch. 63  
 
– 3 –  SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect 
October 1, 2024.  
 
Approved by the Governor, April 9, 2024.  