 WES MOORE, Governor  Ch. 685  
 
– 1 – Chapter 685  
(House Bill 839 ) 
 
AN ACT concerning  
 
Carroll County – Contracts and Purchasing  
 
FOR the purpose of increasing to a certain amount the cost of a public work or improvement 
or the purchase price of supplies or equipment for which the County Commissioners 
of Carroll County may enter into a contract; requiring that when the cost of a publ ic 
work or improvement or the purchase price of supplies or equipment in Carroll 
County exceeds a certain amount under certain conditions, the Chief of the Bureau 
of Purchasing  Procurement Officer  for the County Commissioner shall advertise for 
bids for a certain amount of time in a media accessible to the general public; and 
generally relating to contracts and purchases in Carroll County.  
 
BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,  
 The Public Local Laws of Carroll County  
 Section 3 –401 
 Article 7 – Public Local Laws of Maryland  
 (2014 Edition and January 2023 Supplement, as amended)  
 
 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND, 
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:  
 
Article 7 – Carroll County  
 
3–401. 
 
 (a) In contracting for an y necessary public work or improvement or for the 
purchase of supplies and equipment needed at any time by the several departments of the 
County, the County Commissioners of Carroll County may enter into contracts for public 
work or improvement and may pur chase supplies and equipment on an order passed by the 
County Commissioners provided that the cost of the public work or improvement or the 
purchase price of the supplies and equipment does not exceed [$25,000.00 ] $50,000.00 . 
 
 (b) When the cost of any pro ject for public work or improvement, or the purchase 
price of any supplies and equipment exceeds [$25,000.00 ] $50,000.00 , except in 
emergencies or when there is a sole source of supply, the Chief of the Bureau of Purchasing  
PROCUREMENT OFFICER  for the Coun ty Commissioner shall provide public notice for at 
least one week in a media accessible to the general public including, but not limited to a 
newspaper circulated in Carroll County and an internet web site, for bids to perform the 
public work or improvemen t or to furnish the supplies and equipment. The public notice 
shall state the date, time and place of opening of the bids.  
 
Ch. 685  2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND   
 
– 2 –  (c) The bids shall be opened in the presence of an employee designated by the 
County Commissioners of Carroll County.  
 
 (d) The Cou nty Commissioners of Carroll County shall award the contract to the 
lowest responsible bidder whose bid is considered reasonable, or in their discretion, may 
reject any and all bids.  
 
 (e) The County Commissioners may authorize nonprofit entities that are funded 
by the County or eligible to receive county funds, to participate in county procurement 
contracts.  
 
 (f) The County Commissioners may authorize the Chief of the Bureau of 
Purchasing  PROCUREMENT OFFICER  to participate in cooperative or piggyback 
purchasing with other governmental agencies or associations, provided the public notice for 
the bid is in accordance with the rules and regulations governing the soliciting agency or 
association.  
 
 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall tak e effect 
October 1, 2024.  
 
Approved by the Governor, May 9, 2024.  