 WES MOORE, Governor  Ch. 160  
 
– 1 – Chapter 160  
(House Bill 860 ) 
 
AN ACT concerning  
 
Housing and Community Development – Community Action Boards  
 
FOR the purpose of requiring certain community action boards to meet certain federal 
requirements for tripartite boards; repealing certain requirements relating to the 
composition of community action boards; and generally relating to community action 
agenc ies and community action boards.  
 
BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,  
 Article – Housing and Community Development  
 Section 8 –104 
 Annotated Code of Maryland  
 (2019 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)  
 
BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,  
 Article – Housing and Community Development  
 Section 8 –105(a)  
 Annotated Code of Maryland  
 (2019 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)  
 
 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND, 
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:  
 
Article – Housing and Community Development  
 
8–104. 
 
 (a) A political subdivision may designate a community action agency to serve a 
community within the political subdivision or may change or revoke a designation by:  
 
  (1) an act, an ordinance, or a resolution of its governing body; or  
 
  (2) an order of its chief executive, if the chief legal officer certifies in writing 
that the chief executive has power to make the designation.  
 
 (b) (1) The governing body shall notify the public and hold a public hearing 
before a designation is made, changed, or revoked.  
 
  (2) A transition or close –down plan shall accompany the notification of a 
proposed change or revocation of a designation.  
 
 (c) A change in or revocation of a designation takes effect at the sta rt of the State 
Ch. 160  2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND   
 
– 2 – fiscal year.  
 
8–105. 
 
 (a) (1) A community action agency shall administer its programs through a 
community action board.  
 
  (2) A community action board  [consists of at least 15 members, of whom:  
 
   (i) one–third are elected public officia ls currently holding office, or 
their designees;  
 
   (ii) at least one –third are chosen by a democratic selection method 
designed to assure that they will represent low –income persons in the community; and  
 
   (iii) the others are officials or members of b usiness, industry, labor, 
religious, welfare, education, or other major groups and interests in the community.  
 
  (3) A member chosen to represent a geographic area shall reside in the 
area.  
 
  (4) A person selected under paragraph (2)(ii) or (iii) of this  subsection may 
not serve for more than 5 years consecutively or for more than a total of 10 years ] SHALL 
MEET THE REQUIREMENT S FOR A TRIPARTITE B OARD UNDER 42 U.S.C.  § 9910 . 
 
 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect 
October 1 , 2024.  
 
Approved by the Governor, April 25, 2024.  