 WES MOORE, Governor  Ch. 285  
 
– 1 – Chapter 285  
(House Bill 998 ) 
 
AN ACT concerning  
 
Maryland Department of Labor  – Unemployment Insurance – Study on Actively 
Seeking Work Requirement s 
 
FOR the purpose of requiring the Maryland Department of Labor to conduct a study on  the 
actively seeking work requirement of the unemployment insurance system  in the 
State and other states to evaluate the effects of ghosting on actively seeking work 
requirements ; and generally relating to a study on actively seeking work 
requirements  for unemployment insurance benefits.  
 
 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND, 
That:  
 
 (a) (1) In this section  the following words have the meanings indicate d. 
 
  (2) “Actively seeking work requirements” means the requirement 
established under § 8 –903(a)(iii)  of the Labor and Employment Article  to maintain 
eligibility for unemployment insurance benefits . 
 
  (3) “Department” means the Maryland Department of Labor.  
 
  (4) “Ghost” means the failure of a claimant for unemployment insurance 
benefits who is scheduled for a job interview with an employer to attend  the interview or 
maintain contact with the employer after the interview is scheduled.  
 
 (b) The Department shall conduct a study on the actively seeking work  
requirements of the unemployment insurance system in the State and other states to 
evaluate  the effects of ghosting on actively seeking work requirements . 
 
 (c) The study shall:  
 
  (1) exami ne the  actively seeking work requirements of other states  to 
determine : 
 
   (i) the ways in which the actively seeking work requirements of 
other states are different from those in th e State ; and 
 
   (ii) how the actively seeking work requirements of other  states are 
verifie d to ensure a claimant remains eligible for unemployment insurance benefits ; 
 
Ch. 285  2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND   
 
– 2 –   (2) determine whether the Department, using existing resources, is able to 
perform periodic verification of the information reported by claimant s to satisfy the 
claimant’s actively seeking work requirement;  
 
  (3) evaluate and explain  why the online BEACON system for claimants 
and employers does not or can not allow an employer to input information about a claimant ’s 
actively seeking work requirement , including : 
 
   (i) confirmation that  a claimant contact ed an employer for work; 
and 
 
   (ii) a report of ghosting ; 
 
  (4) determine whether it is feasible to remove requirements for employers 
to input certain information in the BEACON system, such as a claimant’s Social Security 
number , for purposes of reporting incidents of ghosting; and  
 
  (5) examine any other factors relevant to reporting ghosting or verifying 
whether a claimant meets the actively seeking work requirement.  
 
 (d) On or before December 1, 2024, the Department shall  report its findings and 
recommendations to the General Assembly , in accordance with § 2 –1257 of the State 
Government Article . 
 
 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect July 
1, 2024.  
 
Approved by the Governor, April 25, 2024.  