 WES MOORE, Governor  Ch. 296  
 
– 1 – Chapter 296  
(House Bill 1227 ) 
 
AN ACT concerning  
 
Condominiums – Mandatory Insurance Coverage – Detached Units  
 
FOR the purpose of altering the types of elements and units for which a council of unit 
owners is required to maintain certain property insurance; requiring the council of 
unit owners to notify owners of detached units within a condominium of certain 
prope rty insurance coverage obligations;  limiting instances when an owner of a 
detached unit within a condominium is required to carry homeowners insurance on 
the entirety of the unit; authorizing a council of unit owners to carry homeowners 
insurance on the en tirety of all units located within a certain condominium;  and 
generally relating to mandatory insurance coverage for condominiums.  
 
BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,  
 Article – Real Property  
Section 11 –114 
 Annotated Code of Maryland  
 (2023 Replacement Volume)  
 
 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND, 
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:  
 
Article – Real Property  
 
11–114. 
 
 (a) Commencing not later than the time of the first conveyance of a unit to a 
person other th an the developer, the council of unit owners shall maintain, to the extent 
reasonably available:  
 
  (1) Property insurance against risks of direct physical loss commonly 
insured against in amounts determined by the council of unit owners, but not less than  any 
amounts specified in the declaration or bylaws:  
 
   (i) For attached [or] UNITS , multifamily dwelling units, OR 
DETACHED UNITS LOCAT ED WITHIN A CONDOMIN IUM NOT COMPOSED ENT IRELY OF 
SIMILAR DETACHED UNI TS, on the common elements and units, exclusive of  
improvements and betterments installed in units by unit owners other than the developer; 
and 
 
   (ii) For detached units  LOCATED WITHIN A CON DOMINIUM 
COMPOSED ENTIRELY OF  SIMILAR DETACHED UNI TS, on the common elements; and  
Ch. 296  2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND   
 
– 2 –  
  (2) Comprehensive general lia bility insurance, including medical 
payments insurance, in an amount determined by the council of unit owners, but not less 
than any amount specified in the declaration or bylaws, covering occurrences commonly 
insured against for death, bodily injury, and property damage arising out of or in connection 
with the use, ownership, or maintenance of the common elements.  
 
 (b) (1) (I) The council of unit owners shall give notice to all unit owners of 
the termination of any insurance policy within 10 days of termination.  
 
   (II) The declaration or bylaws may require the council of unit owners 
to carry any other insurance, and the counc il of unit owners in any event may carry any 
other insurance it deems appropriate to protect the council of unit owners or the unit 
owners.  
 
  (2) (I) THE COUNCIL OF UNIT O WNERS SHALL GIVE AN ANNUAL 
NOTICE , IN WRITING , OF ANY OBLIGATION OF  AN OWNER OF A RESIDENTIAL , 
DETACHED UNIT TO OBT AIN PROPERTY INSURAN CE COVERAGE ON THE U NIT. 
 
   (II) IF THERE IS A CHANGE IN ANY OBLIGATION UN DER 
SUBPARAGRAPH (I) OF THIS PARAGRAPH , THE COUNCIL OF UNIT OWNERS SHALL 
PROMPTLY PROVIDE THE  UNIT OWNER WITH AN U PDATED NOTICE .  
 
 (c) Insurance policies carried pursuant to subsection (a) of this section shall 
provide that:  
 
  (1) Subject to the applicable coverage specified under subsection (a)(1) of 
this section, each unit owner is an insured person under the policy with respec t to liability 
arising out of the unit owner’s ownership of an undivided interest in the common elements 
or membership in the council of unit owners for property and casualty losses to the common 
elements and the units, exclusive of improvements and better ments installed in the units 
by unit owners other than the developer;  
 
  (2) The insurer waives its right to subrogation under the policy against any 
unit owner of the condominium or members of his household;  
 
  (3) An act or omission by any unit owner, un less acting within the scope of 
his authority on behalf of the council of unit owners, does not void the policy and is not a 
condition to recovery under the policy; and  
 
  (4) If, at the time of a loss under the policy, there is other insurance in the 
name  of a unit owner covering the same property covered by the policy, the policy is primary 
insurance not contributing with the other insurance.  
 
 WES MOORE, Governor  Ch. 296  
 
– 3 –  (d) (1) Subject to the applicable coverage specified under subsection (a)(1) of 
this section, any loss covered b y the property policy shall be adjusted with the council of 
unit owners, but the insurance proceeds for that loss shall be payable to any insurance 
trustee designated for that purpose, or otherwise to the council of unit owners, and not to 
any mortgagee.  
 
  (2) The insurance trustee or the council of unit owners shall hold any 
insurance proceeds in trust for unit owners and lien holders as their interests may appear.  
 
  (3) (i) Subject to the provisions of subsection (g) of this section, the 
proceeds shall be disbursed first for the repair or restoration of the damaged common 
elements and, for condominiums with attached [or] UNITS , multifamily units , OR 
DETACHED UNITS LOCAT ED WITHIN A CONDOMIN IUM NOT COMPOSED ENT IRELY OF 
SIMILAR DETACHED UNI TS that must main tain a property insurance policy on the units, 
the damaged units.  
 
   (ii) Unit owners and lien holders are not entitled to receive payment 
of any portion of the proceeds unless:  
 
    1. There is a surplus of proceeds after the common elements 
and, for con dominiums with attached [or] UNITS , multifamily units , OR DETACHED UNITS 
LOCATED WITHIN A CON DOMINIUM NOT COMPOSE D ENTIRELY OF SIMILA R 
DETACHED UNITS  that must maintain a property insurance policy on the units, the units 
have been completely repaired or re stored; or  
 
    2. The condominium is terminated.  
 
 (e) (1) An insurance policy issued to the council of unit owners does not 
prevent a unit owner from obtaining insurance for his own benefit.  
 
  (2) An UNLESS A COUNCIL OF U NIT OWNERS EXERCISES  THE 
AUTHORITY UNDER PARA GRAPH (3) OF THIS SUBSECTION , AN owner of a residential, 
detached unit, unit LOCATED WITHIN A CON DOMINIUM COMPOSED EN TIRELY OF 
SIMILAR DETACHED UNI TS, shall carry homeowners insurance coverage on the entirety 
of the unit.  
 
  (3) A COUNC IL OF UNIT OWNERS MA Y CARRY HOMEOWNERS 
INSURANCE ON THE ENT IRETY OF ALL DETACHE D UNITS LOCATED WITH IN A 
CONDOMINIUM COMPOSED  ENTIRELY OF SIMILAR DETACHED UNITS .  
 
 (f) (1) An insurer that has issued an insurance policy under this section shall 
issue certif icates or memoranda of insurance to the council of unit owners and, upon 
request, to any unit owner, mortgagee, or beneficiary under a deed of trust.  
 
Ch. 296  2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND   
 
– 4 –   (2) An insurer may cancel an insurance policy issued under this section in 
accordance with § 27 –603 of the Insurance Article.  
 
 (g) (1) Subject to the applicable coverage specified under subsection (a)(1) of 
this section, any portion of the common elements and the units, exclusive of improvements 
and betterments installed in the units by unit owners other t han the developer, damaged 
or destroyed shall be repaired or replaced promptly by the council of unit owners unless:  
 
   (i) The condominium is terminated;  
 
   (ii) Repair or replacement would be illegal under any State or local 
health or safety statute or  ordinance; or  
 
   (iii) 80 percent of the unit owners, including every owner of a unit or 
assigned limited common element which will not be rebuilt, vote not to rebuild.  
 
  (2) (i) 1. The cost of repair or replacement in excess of insurance 
proceeds and reserves is a common expense.  
 
    2. A property insurance deductible is not a cost of repair or 
replacement in excess of insurance proceeds.  
 
   (ii) If the cause of any damage to or destruction of any portion of the 
condominium originates from the common  elements or an event outside of the condominium 
units and common elements, the council of unit owners’ property insurance deductible is a 
common expense.  
 
   (iii) 1. If the cause of any damage to or destruction of any portion 
of the condominium originate s from a unit, the owner of the unit where the cause of the 
damage or destruction originated is responsible for the council of unit owners’ property 
insurance deductible not to exceed $10,000.  
 
    2. The council of unit owners shall inform each unit owner  
annually in writing of:  
 
    A. The unit owner’s responsibility for the council of unit 
owners’ property insurance deductible; and  
 
    B. The amount of the deductible.  
 
    3. The council of unit owners’ property insurance deductible 
amount exceeding the  $10,000 responsibility of the unit owner is a common expense.  
 
   (iv) In the same manner as provided under § 11 –110 of this title, the 
council of unit owners may make an annual assessment against the unit owner responsible 
under subparagraph (iii) of thi s paragraph.  
 WES MOORE, Governor  Ch. 296  
 
– 5 –  
  (3) If the damaged or destroyed portion of the condominium is not repaired 
or replaced:  
 
   (i) The insurance proceeds attributable to the damaged common 
elements shall be used to restore the damaged area to a condition compatible with the 
remainder of the condominium;  
 
   (ii) The insurance proceeds attributable to units and limited 
common elements which are not rebuilt shall be distributed to the owners of those units 
and the owners of the units to which those limited common elements were assigned; and  
 
   (iii) The remainder of the proceeds shall be distributed to all the unit 
owners in proportion to their percentage interest in the common elements.  
 
  (4) (i) If the unit owners vote not to rebuild any unit, that unit’s entire 
common eleme nt interest, votes in the council of unit owners, and common expense liability 
are automatically reallocated upon the vote as if the unit had been condemned under §  
11–112 of this title, and the council of unit owners promptly shall prepare, execute, and 
record an amendment to the declaration reflecting the reallocations.  
 
   (ii) Notwithstanding the provisions of this subsection, § 11 –123 of 
this title governs the distribution of insurance proceeds if the condominium is terminated.  
 
 (h) The council of un it owners shall maintain and make available for inspection a 
copy of all insurance policies maintained by the council of unit owners.  
 
 (i) The provisions of this section do not apply to a condominium all of whose units 
are intended for nonresidential use.  
 
 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect 
October 1, 2024.  
 
Approved by the Governor, April 25, 2024.  