 WES MOORE, Governor  Ch. 285  
 
– 1 – Chapter 285  
(House Bill 48 ) 
 
AN ACT concerning  
 
Maryland Medical Assistance Program – Collaborative Care Model Services – 
Implementation and Reimbursement Expansion  
 
FOR the purpose of repealing the Collaborative Care Pilot Program; requiring the 
Maryland Department of Health to implement and provide reimbursement for 
services provided in accordance with the Collaborative Care Model under the 
Maryland Medical Assistance Progra m; and generally relating to the provision and 
reimbursement of somatic and behavioral health services in primary care settings 
under the Maryland Medical Assistance Program.  
 
BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,  
 Article – Health – General  
Section 15 –141.1  
 Annotated Code of Maryland  
 (2019 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)  
 
BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,  
 Chapter 683 of the Acts of the General Assembly of 2018  
Section 2  
 
BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,  
 Chapter 684 of the Acts of the General Assembly of 2018  
 Section 2  
 
 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND, 
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:  
 
Article – Health – General  
 
15–141.1.  
 
 (a) [(1)] In this section [the following words have the meanings indicated.  
 
  (2)], “Collaborative Care Model” means an evidence –based approach for 
integrating somatic and behavioral health services in primary care settings that includes:  
 
   [(i)] (1) Care coordination and management;  
 
Ch. 285  2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND   
 
– 2 –    [(ii)] (2) Regular, proactive outcome monitoring and treatment for 
outcome targets using standardized outcome measurement rating scales and electronic 
tools, such as patient tracking; and  
 
   [(iii)] (3) Regular systematic psychiatric and substance use disorder  
caseload reviews and consultation with a psychiatrist, an addiction medicine specialist, or 
any other behavioral health medicine specialist as allowed under federal regulations 
governing the model.  
 
  [(3) “Pilot Program” means the Collaborative Care Pilo t Program. ] 
 
 (b) This section may not be construed to prohibit referrals from a primary care 
provider to a specialty behavioral health care provider.  
 
 [(c) There is a Collaborative Care Pilot Program in the Department.  
 
 (d) The purpose of the Pilot Prog ram is to establish and implement a 
Collaborative Care Model in primary care settings in which health care services are 
provided to Program recipients enrolled in HealthChoice.  
 
 (e) The Department shall administer the Pilot Program.  
 
 (f) (1) The Departme nt shall select up to three sites at which a Collaborative 
Care Model shall be established over a 4 –year period.  
 
  (2) The sites selected by the Department shall be adult or pediatric 
nonspecialty medical practices or health systems that serve a significa nt number of 
Program recipients.  
 
  (3) To the extent practicable, one of the sites selected by the Department 
under paragraph (1) of this subsection shall be located in a rural area of the State.  
 
 (g) The sites selected by the Department under subsection  (f) of this section shall 
ensure that treatment services, prescriptions, and care management that would be 
provided to an individual under the Pilot Program are not duplicative of specialty 
behavioral health care services being received by the individual.  
 
 (h) The Department shall provide funding to sites participating in the Pilot 
Program for:  
 
  (1) Infrastructure development, including the development of a patient 
registry and other monitoring, reporting, and billing tools required to implement a 
Colla borative Care Model;  
 
  (2) Training staff to implement the Collaborative Care Model;  
 
 WES MOORE, Governor  Ch. 285  
 
– 3 –   (3) Staffing for care management and psychiatric consultation provided 
under the Collaborative Care Model; and  
 
  (4) Other purposes necessary to implement and evaluate the Collaborative 
Care Model.  
 
 (i) The Department shall:  
 
  (1) Collaborate with stakeholders in the development, implementation, 
and outcome monitoring of the Pilot Program; and  
 
  (2) Collect outcomes data on recipients of health care services under the 
Pilot Program to:  
 
   (i) Evaluate the effectiveness of the Collaborative Care Model, 
including by evaluating the number of and outcomes for individuals who:  
 
    1. Were not diagnosed as having a behavioral health 
condition before receiving trea tment through the Pilot Program;  
 
    2. Were not diagnosed as having a behavioral health 
condition before being referred to and treated by a specialty behavioral health provider;  
 
    3. Received behavioral health services in a primary care 
setting before  receiving treatment through the Pilot Program; and  
 
    4. Received specialty behavioral health care services before 
being identified as eligible to receive treatment through the Pilot Program; and  
 
   (ii) Determine whether to ]  
 
 (C) THE DEPARTMENT SHAL L implement AND PROVIDE REIMBURS EMENT 
FOR SERVICES PROVIDE D IN ACCORDANCE WITH  the Collaborative Care Model 
statewide in primary care settings that provide health care services to Program recipients.  
 
 [(j) The Department shall apply to the Centers for Med icare and Medicaid 
Services for an amendment to the State’s § 1115 HealthChoice Demonstration waiver if 
necessary to implement the Pilot Program.  
 
 (k) For fiscal year 2020, fiscal year 2021, fiscal year 2022, and fiscal year 2023, 
the Governor shall include in the annual budget an appropriation of $550,000 for the Pilot 
Program.  
 
 (l) On or before November 1, 2023, the Department shall report to the Governor 
and, in accordance with § 2 –1257 of the State Government Article, the General Assembly 
on the Department’s findings and recommendations from the Pilot Program. ] 
Ch. 285  2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND   
 
– 4 –  
Chapter 683 of the Acts of 2018  
 
 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect July 
1, 2018. [It shall remain effective for a period of 6 years and, at the end of June 30, 2024, 
this Act, with no further action required by the General Assembly, shall be abrogated and 
of no further force and effect. ] 
 
Chapter 684 of the Acts of 2018  
 
 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect July 
1, 2018.  [It shall remain effective for a period of 6 years and, at the end of June 30, 2024, 
this Act, with no further action required by the General Assembly, shall be abrogated and 
of no further force and effect. ] 
 
 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That th is Act shall take effect 
October 1, 2023.  
 
Approved by the Governor, May 3, 2023.  