 WES MOORE, Governor  Ch. 319  
 
– 1 – Chapter 319  
(House Bill 273 ) 
 
AN ACT concerning  
 
Health Occupations – Environmental Health Specialists – Revisions  
 
FOR the purpose of altering the definition of “practice as an environmental health 
specialist”;  altering the education requirements for an applicant for licensure as an 
environmental health specialist; authorizing the Board of Environmental Health 
Specialists to approve an examination provider to administer the licen sure 
examination;  altering the grounds for which the Board may take disciplinary action 
against an applicant or a licensee; altering certain procedures relating to the review 
of a final decision of the Board;  and generally relating to environmental health 
specialists.  
 
BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,  
 Article – Health Occupations  
Section 21 –101(a)  
 Annotated Code of Maryland  
 (2021 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)  
 
BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,  
 Article – Health Occupations  
Section 21–101(i),  21–304, and 21–312, and 21 –314 
 Annotated Code of Maryland  
 (2021 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)  
 
 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND, 
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:  
 
Article – Health Occupations  
 
21–101. 
 
 (a) In this title the following words have the meanings indicated.  
 
 (i) “Practice as an environmental health specialist” means, as a major component 
of employment, to apply academic principles, methods and procedures of the 
environmental, physical, biological, and health sciences to the inspections and 
investigations necessary to collect and analyze data and to make decisions necessary to 
secure compliance with federal, State, and local health and environmental laws and 
regulat ions specifically relating to control of the public health aspects of the environment 
including:  
 
Ch. 319  2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND   
 
– 2 –   (1) The manufacture, preparation, handling, distribution, or sale of food 
and milk;  
 
  (2) Water supply and treatment;  
 
  (3) Wastewater treatment and disposal;  
 
  (4) Solid waste management and disposal;  
 
  (5) Vector control;  
 
  (6) Insect and rodent control;  
 
  (7) Air quality;  
 
  (8) Noise control;  
 
  (9) Product safety;  
 
  (10) Recreational sanitation; [and] 
 
  (11) Institutional and residential san itation ; AND  
 
  (12) ASPECTS RELATED TO PU BLIC HEALTH EMERGENC Y 
PREPAREDNESS . 
 
21–304. 
 
 (a) An applicant who otherwise qualifies for licensure is entitled to be examined 
as provided in this section.  
 
 (b) An applicant qualifies to take the examination if the applicant:  
 
  (1) (i) Has graduated from an accredited college or university with a 
baccalaureate degree [in the chemical, physical, biological, or environmental sciences, as 
defined in regulation, including ] THAT INCLUDES : 
 
    1. A minimum of [60] 30 semester credit hours or the 
equivalent quarter credit hours of chemical, physical, biological, and environmental 
sciences acceptable to the Board [which includes at least one laboratory course in two of 
the following fields:  
 
    A. Chemistry;  
 
    B. Physics;  
 WES MOORE, Governor  Ch. 319  
 
– 3 –  
    C. Biology;  
 
    D. Geographic information systems; or  
 
    E. Soil science; and ]; 
 
    2. A course in mathematics; and  
 
    3. LABORATORY COURSEWORK  AS REQUIRED IN 
REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY THE BOARD ; AND 
 
   (ii) Has obtained 12 months of experi ence in an environmental 
health specialist –in–training program approved by the Board; OR 
 
  (2) [(i) Has graduated from an accredited college or university with a 
baccalaureate degree that includes:  
 
    1. 30 semester credit hours or the equivalent quarte r credit 
hours in the chemical, physical, biological, and environmental sciences acceptable to the 
Board, which includes at least one laboratory course in two of the following fields:  
 
    A. Chemistry;  
 
    B. Physics;  
 
    C. Biology;  
 
    D. Geographic information systems; or  
 
    E. Soil science; and  
 
    2. A course in mathematics; and  
 
   (ii) Has obtained 24 months of experience in an environmental 
health specialist –in–training program approved by the Board; or  
 
  (3)] Has graduated from an accredite d college or university with a master’s 
degree in public or environmental health science that includes:  
 
   (i) A MINIMUM OF 30 semester credit hours or 45 quarter credit 
hours of chemical, physical, biological, or environmental sciences acceptable to the Board 
and obtained at the baccalaureate or master’s level [, which includes at least one laboratory 
course in two of the following fields:  
 
    1. Chemistry;  
Ch. 319  2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND   
 
– 4 –  
    2. Physics;  
 
    3. Biology;  
 
    4. Geographic information systems; or  
 
    5. Soil science ]; 
 
   (ii) A course in mathematics; [and] 
 
   (iii) 3 months of internship approved by the Board if not previously 
completed ; AND  
 
   (IV) LABORATORY COURSEWORK  AS REQUIRED IN 
REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY THE BOARD . 
 
 (c) (1) This subsection does not alter the requirement that an applicant 
demonstrate completion of a baccalaureate or master’s degree to qualify for examination.  
 
  (2) The Board may waive any of the specific course requirements for an 
applicant to qualify for examination in subsection (b) of this section if the Board determines 
that an applicant:  
 
   (i) Has obtained an equivalent number of credit hours in a course 
relevant to practice as an environmental health specialist; or  
 
   (ii) Has work experience that is an acceptable substitute for a cour se 
required in subsection (b) of this section.  
 
  [(3) The Board may waive the experience requirement in subsection 
(b)(2)(ii) of this section if the Board determines that an applicant:  
 
   (i) Has obtained at least 12 months of experience in an 
environmen tal health specialist –in–training program; and  
 
   (ii) Has the written support of the applicant’s employer. ] 
 
 (d) The examination REQUIRED BY THE BOARD shall include a written 
examination in the physical, biological, and environmental sciences that relat es to practices 
and principles of environmental health.  
 
 (e) The Board shall [give]: 
 
 WES MOORE, Governor  Ch. 319  
 
– 5 –   (1) ADMINISTER  ADMINISTER  examinations to applicants at least once a 
year, at the times and places that the Board determines ; OR 
 
  (2) APPROVE AN EXAMINATIO N PROVIDER  TO ADMINISTER THE 
EXAMINATION TO APPLI CANTS AT LEAST ONCE PER YEAR , AT THE TIME AND PLAC E 
THAT THE PROVIDER DE TERMINES . 
 
 (f) The Board shall notify each qualified applicant of [the time ]: 
 
  (1) IF THE EXAMINATION IS  ADMINISTERED BY THE BOARD , THE TIME  
and place of examination ; OR 
 
  (2) IF THE EXAMINATION IS  ADMINISTERED BY AN E XAMINATION 
PROVIDER APPROVED UN DER SUBSECTION (E)(2) OF THIS SECTION , THE 
REGISTRATION PROCEDU RE FOR THE EXAMINATI ON. 
 
 (g) IF THE BOARD ADMINISTERS THE  EXAMINATION , THE  THE BOARD 
SHALL : 
 
  (1) [Except as otherwise provided in this subtitle, the Board shall 
determine ] DETERMINE  the subjects, scope, form, and passing score for examinations 
[given under this subtitle. ]; AND  
 
  (2) [The Board shall use ] USE professional examinati ons prepared by 
recognized examination agencies.  
 
 (h) [(1)] An applicant who fails an examination may retake the examination as 
provided in the rules and regulations adopted by the Board.  
 
  [(2) An applicant for reexamination shall:  
 
   (i) Submit to the  Board an application on the form the Board 
requires; and  
 
   (ii) Pay to the Board a reexamination fee set by the Board. ] 
 
 (i) The Board may waive any examination requirement under this section if the 
Board recognizes the applicant as being outstanding i n the field of environmental health.  
 
21–312. 
 
 (a) The Board shall adopt a code of ethics designed to protect the public’s interest.  
 
 (b) Subject to the hearing provisions of § 21 –313 of this subtitle, the Board, on the 
affirmative vote of a majority of its full authorized membership, may deny any applicant 
Ch. 319  2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND   
 
– 6 – licensure, reprimand any licensee, or place any individual who is licensed on probation, or 
suspend or revoke a license, if the applicant or licensee:  
 
  (1) Fraudulently or deceptively obtains or atte mpts to obtain a license for 
the applicant or license holder or another;  
 
  (2) Fraudulently or deceptively uses a license;  
 
  (3) Knowingly violates any provision of this title, or any rule or regulation 
adopted under this title;  
 
  (4) Commits any gross negligence, MISFEASANCE , MALFEASANCE , 
incompetence, or misconduct while performing the duties of an environmental health 
specialist;  
 
  (5) Is convicted of or pleads guilty or nolo contendere to a felony or to a 
crime involving moral turp itude, whether or not any appeal or other proceeding is pending 
to have the conviction or plea set aside;  
 
  (6) Provides professional services while:  
 
   (i) Under the influence of alcohol; or  
 
   (ii) Using any narcotic or controlled dangerous substance,  as defined 
in § 5 –101 of the Criminal Law Article, or other drug that is in excess of therapeutic 
amounts or without valid medical indication;  
 
  (7) Is disciplined by a licensing or disciplinary authority of any other state 
or country or convicted or dis ciplined by a court of any state or country for an act that would 
be grounds for disciplinary action under the Board’s disciplinary statutes;  
 
  (8) Willfully makes or files a false report or record while performing the 
duties of an environmental health sp ecialist;  
 
  (9) Willfully fails to file or record any report as required by law, willfully 
impedes or obstructs the filing or recording of the report, or induces another to fail to file 
or record the report;  
 
  (10) Submits a false statement to collect a fee; 
 
  (11) Promotes the sale of land, devices, appliances, or goods provided for a 
person in such a manner as to exploit the person for financial gain of the licensed 
environmental health specialist;  
 
  (12) Willfully alters a sample, specimen, or any test procedure to cause the 
results upon analysis to represent a false finding;  
 WES MOORE, Governor  Ch. 319  
 
– 7 –  
  (13) Violates any rule or regulation adopted by the Board;  
 
  (14) Uses or promotes or causes the use of any misleading, deceiving, or 
untruthful advertising matter, promotional literature, or testimonial;  
 
  (15) Is professionally, physically, or mentally incompetent; or  
 
  (16) Fails to cooperate with a lawful investigation conducted by the Board.  
 
 (c) Except as provided in subsection (d) of this section, any person , including a 
Board employee, may make a written, specific charge of a violation under this section, if 
the person:  
 
  (1) Swears to the charge; and  
 
  (2) Files the charge with the Board secretary.  
 
 (d) (1) If a licensed environmental health specialist k nows of an action or 
condition that might be grounds for action under subsection (b) of this section, the licensed 
environmental health specialist shall report the action or condition to the Board.  
 
  (2) An individual shall have the immunity from liabilit y described under § 
5–702 of the Courts Article for making a report as required by this subsection.  
 
21–314. 
 
 (A) Except as provided in this section for an action under § 21 –312 of this subtitle, 
any person aggrieved by a final decision of the Board in a contested case, as defined in § 
10–202 of the State Government Article, may [take an appeal ] PETITION FOR JUDICIA L 
REVIEW  as allowed [in §§ 10 –222 and 10 –223 of the State Government Article ] BY THE  
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE ACT. 
 
 (B) ANY PERSON AGGRIEVED BY A FINAL DECISION O F THE BOARD UNDER  
§ 21–312 OF THIS SUBTITLE MAY  NOT APPEAL TO THE SECRETARY BUT MAY TAK E A 
DIRECT JUDICIAL APPE AL AS PROVIDED IN TH E ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE ACT. 
 
 (C) AN ORDER OF THE BOARD MAY NOT BE STAY ED PENDING JUDICIAL  
REVIEW . 
 
 (D) THE BOARD MAY APPEAL ANY DECISION THAT REVERS ES OR MODIFIES  
ITS ORDER . 
 
 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect 
October  July 1, 2023.  
 
Ch. 319  2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND   
 
– 8 – Approved by the Governor, May 3, 2023.  