 WES MOORE, Governor  Ch. 373  
 
– 1 – Chapter 373  
(House Bill 420 ) 
 
AN ACT concerning  
 
Health Services Cost Review Commission – Hospital Rate s – All–Payer Model 
Contract  
 
FOR the purpose of requiring  that the Health Services Cost Review Commission exercise 
its authority to  consider certain standards  when determining the reasonableness of 
certain rates  in a manner that is consistent with the all –payer model contract ; and 
generally relating to the Health Servi ces Cost Review Commission.  
 
BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,  
 Article – Health – General  
Section 19 –219 
 Annotated Code of Maryland  
 (2019 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)  
 
 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND, 
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:  
 
Article – Health – General  
 
19–219. 
 
 (a) The Commission may review the costs, and rates, quality, and efficiency of 
facility services, and make any investigation that the Commission considers necessary  to 
assure each purchaser of health care facility services that:  
 
  (1) The total costs of all hospital services offered by or through a facility 
are reasonable;  
 
  (2) The aggregate rates of the facility are related reasonably to the 
aggregate costs of th e facility; and  
 
  (3) The rates are set equitably among all purchasers or classes of 
purchasers without undue discrimination or preference.  
 
 (b) (1) To carry out its powers under subsection (a) of this section, the 
Commission may review and approve or di sapprove the reasonableness of any rate or 
amount of revenue that a facility sets or requests.  
 
  (2) A facility shall:  
 
Ch. 373  2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND   
 
– 2 –    (i) Charge for services only at a rate set in accordance with this 
subtitle; and  
 
   (ii) Comply with the applicable terms and conditions of the all –payer 
model contract.  
 
  (3) [In] CONSISTENT WITH THE A LL–PAYER MODEL CONTRACT , IN 
determining the reasonableness of rates, the Commission may take into account objective 
standards of efficiency and effectiveness.  
 
 (c) Consistent wit h the all –payer model contract, and notwithstanding any other 
provision of this subtitle, the Commission may:  
 
  (1) Establish hospital rate levels and rate increases in the aggregate or on 
a hospital –specific basis;  
 
  (2) Promote and approve alternative methods of rate determination and 
payment of an experimental nature for the duration of the all –payer model contract; and  
 
  (3) On request of the Secretary, assist in the implementation of federally 
approved model programs . 
 
 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect 
October 1, 2023.  
 
Approved by the Governor, May 3, 2023.  