 WES MOORE, Governor  Ch. 188  
 
– 1 – Chapter 188  
(House Bill 791 ) 
 
AN ACT concerning  
 
Law Enforcement Officers’ Pension System  – Membership – Emergency Medical 
Technicians  
 
FOR the purpose of authorizing  membership in the Law Enforcement Officers’ Pension 
System  for certain emergency medical technicians under certain circumstances; and 
generally relating to membership in the Law Enforcement Officers’ Pension System.  
 
BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,  
 Article – State Personnel and Pensions  
Section 26 –201, 31–2A–01, 31–2A–03, 31 –2A–04, and 31–2A–05 
 Annotated Code of Maryland  
 (2015 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)  
 
BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,  
 Article – State Personnel and Pe nsions  
Section 31 –2A–02 and 31–2A–03.1 
 Annotated Code of Maryland  
 (2015 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)  
 
 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND, 
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:  
 
Article – State Personnel and Pens ions  
 
26–201. 
 
 (a) Except as provided in subsection (b) of this section, this subtitle applies only 
to: 
 
  (1) an employee of the Department of Natural Resources commissioned by 
the Secretary of Natural Resources as:  
 
   (i) a Natural Resources police off icer; or  
 
   (ii) a law enforcement officer, other than a Natural Resources police 
officer;  
 
  (2) a law enforcement officer employed by:  
 
   (i) the Field Enforcement Bureau; or  
 
Ch. 188  2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND   
 
– 2 –    (ii) the Field Enforcement Division of the Alcohol and Tobacco 
Commission;  
 
  (3) a member of the Maryland Transportation Authority Police Force who 
has the powers granted to a police officer under § 4 –208 of the Transportation Article;  
 
  (4) a deputy sheriff employed by the Baltimore City Sheriff’s Department;  
 
  (5) a member of the University System of Maryland Police Force who has 
the powers granted to a police officer under § 13 –601 of the Education Article;  
 
  (6) a law enforcement officer or  firefighter employed by a participating 
governmental unit that on or af ter July 1, 1999 has elected to participate in the Law 
Enforcement Officers’ Pension System;  
 
  (7) the State Fire Marshal or a Deputy State Fire Marshal;  
 
  (8) a member of the Morgan State University Police Force who has the 
powers granted to a police of ficer under § 14 –106 of the Education Article;  
 
  (9) a member of the BWI Airport Fire & Rescue Department;  
 
  (10) a member of the Maryland Capitol Police of the Department of General 
Services who has the powers granted to a police officer under § 4 –605 o f the State Finance 
and Procurement Article;  
 
  (11) an employee of the Maryland Department of Health commissioned by 
the Secretary of Health as a Maryland Department of Health police officer;  
 
  (12) an employee of the Motor Vehicle Administration commiss ioned by the 
Secretary of Transportation as a Motor Vehicle Administration police officer;  
 
  (13) a firefighter or law enforcement officer for the Martin State Airport 
employed by the Military Department;  
 
  (14) a police officer employed by the Division of Rehabilitation Services in 
the Department of Education, certified in accordance with the Maryland Police and 
Correctional Training Commissions;  
 
  (15) a firefighter or paramedic employed by the Salisbury Fire D epartment 
who is eligible to be a member as provided in Title 31, Subtitle 2A of this article;  
 
  (16) an aviator employed by the Department of State Police to operate an 
aircraft for the State Emergency Medical System;  
 
  (17) a member of the Maryland Tra nsit Administration Police Force who has 
 WES MOORE, Governor  Ch. 188  
 
– 3 – the powers granted to a police officer under § 7 –207 of the Transportation Article;  
 
  (18) an individual who is elected or appointed as the Baltimore City Sheriff 
and who does not elect to join the Employees’ Pensi on System under Title 23 of this article 
within 6 months of the date the individual begins serving as the Baltimore City Sheriff;  
 
  (19) a member of the Department of Public Safety and Correctional Services 
Intelligence and Investigative Division who has the powers granted to a police officer under 
§ 10–701 of the Correctional Services Article;  
 
  (20) a police officer employed by the Baltimore City Community College who 
has the power granted to a police officer under § 16 –513 of the Education Article;  
 
  (21) an employee of the Warrant Apprehension Unit of the Intelligence and 
Investigative Division in the Department of Public Safety and Correctional Services who 
has the powers granted to a peace officer or police officer under § 10 –702 of the Correctional  
Services Article;  [and] 
 
  (22) the Executive Director of the Alcohol and Tobacco Commission ; AND 
 
  (23) AN EMERGENCY MEDICAL  TECHNICIAN EMPLOYED BY A 
PARTICIPATING GOVERN MENT AL UNIT  WHO IS ELIGIBLE TO B E A MEMBER AS 
PROVIDED IN TITLE 31, SUBTITLE 2A OF THIS ARTICLE . 
 
 (b) This subtitle does not apply to:  
 
  (1) a Maryland Transportation Authority police officer who transferred 
from the Employees’ Retirement System to the Employees’ P ension System on or after 
December 1, 1996;  
 
  (2) a deputy sheriff employed by the Baltimore City Sheriff’s Department 
who transferred from the Employees’ Retirement System to the Employees’ Pension System 
on or after December 1, 1996;  
 
  (3) a member of the University System of Maryland Police Force who 
transferred from the Employees’ Retirement System to the Employees’ Pension System on 
or after December 1, 1997;  
 
  (4) a law enforcement officer [or], firefighter , OR EMERGENCY MEDICAL  
TECHNICIAN  employed  by a participating governmental unit who transferred from the 
Employees’ Retirement System to the Employees’ Pension System on or after December 1, 
1997;  
 
  (5) a Maryland Port Administration police officer who transferred from the 
Employees’ Retirement S ystem to the Employees’ Pension System on or after December 1, 
1997;  
Ch. 188  2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND   
 
– 4 –  
  (6) a State Fire Marshal or Deputy State Fire Marshal who transferred 
from the Employees’ Retirement System to the Employees’ Pension System on or after 
December 1, 1996;  
 
  (7) a memb er of the Morgan State University Police Force who transferred 
from the Employees’ Retirement System to the Employees’ Pension System on or after 
December 1, 1997;  
 
  (8) a member of the BWI Airport Fire & Rescue Department who 
transferred from the Employe es’ Retirement System to the Employees’ Pension System on 
or after April 1, 1998;  
 
  (9) a member of the Maryland Capitol Police of the Department of General 
Services, Maryland Department of Health, or Motor Vehicle Administration who 
transferred from the Employees’ Retirement System to the Employees’ Pension System on 
or after April 1, 1998;  
 
  (10) a firefighter or law enforcement officer for the Martin State Airport 
employed by the Military Department who transferred from the Employees’ Retirement 
System  to the Employees’ Pension System on or after April 1, 1998;  
 
  (11) a police officer employed by the Division of Rehabilitation Services in 
the Department of Education who:  
 
   (i) is certified in accordance with the Maryland Police and 
Correctional Train ing Commissions; and  
 
   (ii) transferred from the Employees’ Retirement System to the 
Employees’ Pension System on or after April 1, 1998;  
 
  (12) a firefighter or paramedic employed by the Salisbury Fire Department 
who transferred from the Employees’ Ret irement System to the Employees’ Pension System 
on or after April 1, 1998;  
 
  (13) an aviator employed by the Department of State Police to operate an 
aircraft for the State Emergency Medical System who transferred from the Employees’ 
Retirement System to the Employees’ Pension System on or after April 1, 1998; or  
 
  (14) a police officer employed by the Baltimore City Community College who 
transferred from the Employees’ Retirement System to the Employees’ Pension System on 
or after December 1, 1996.  
 
31–2A–01. 
 
 (a) In this subtitle the following words have the meanings indicated.  
 WES MOORE, Governor  Ch. 188  
 
– 5 –  
 (b) “Effective date” means the date that an eligible governmental unit commenced 
or commences participation in the Law Enforcement Officers’ Pension System.  
 
 (c) “Eligible  governmental unit” means a governmental unit that is eligible to 
participate in the Law Enforcement Officers’ Pension System under § 31 –2A–02 of this 
subtitle.  
 
 (D) (1) “EMERGENCY MEDICAL TEC HNICIAN ” MEANS A PAID EMERGEN CY 
MEDICAL TECHNICIAN , AS DETERMIN ED BY THE ELIGIBLE G OVERNMENTAL UNIT . 
 
  (2) “EMERGENCY MEDICAL TEC HNICIAN ” DOES NOT INCLUDE A 
VOLUNTEER EMERGENCY MEDICAL TECHNICIAN . 
 
 [(d)] (E) (1) “Firefighter” means:  
 
   (i) a paid firefighter, as determined by the eligible governmental 
unit; or  
 
   (ii) a paid paramedic, as determined by the eligible governmental 
unit.  
 
  (2) “Firefighter” does not include:  
 
   (i) a volunteer firefighter; or  
 
   (ii) a volunteer paramedic.  
 
 [(e)] (F) “Law enforcement officer” means an individual certified by the 
Maryland Police Training and Standards Commission as a law enforcement officer.  
 
 [(f)] (G) (1) “Local plan” means a plan or any other arrangement of an 
eligible governmental unit that is described in § 219(g)(5) of the Internal Revenue Code.  
 
  (2) “Local plan” does not include a plan established under § 457 of the 
Internal Revenue Code.  
 
 [(g)] (H) “State system” has the meaning stated in § 20 –101(pp) of this article.  
 
31–2A–02. 
 
 Subject to § 31 –2A–03 of this subtitle, the governmental units that are elig ible to 
participate in the Law Enforcement Officers’ Pension System are:  
 
  (1) counties; and  
 
Ch. 188  2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND   
 
– 6 –   (2) municipal corporations.  
 
31–2A–03. 
 
 (a) Subject to subsection (b) of this section, the legislative body of an eligible 
governmental unit may approve parti cipation by its law enforcement officers [or], 
firefighters , OR EMERGENCY MEDICAL  TECHNICIAN S in the Law Enforcement Officers’ 
Pension System if:  
 
  (1) the legislative body adopts a resolution in the form prescribed by the 
Board of Trustees; and  
 
  (2) the eligible governmental unit participates in a State system or 
operates a local plan, only if:  
 
   (i) at least 60% of the law enforcement officers [or], firefighters , OR 
EMERGENCY MEDICAL TE CHNICIANS  of the eligible governmental unit petition to 
become me mbers of the Law Enforcement Officers’ Pension System;  
 
   (ii) the eligible governmental unit satisfies the requirements in 
subsection (b) of this section; and  
 
   (iii) the legislative body approves participation of its law enforcement 
officers [or], firefighters , OR EMERGENCY MEDICAL  TECHNICIANS  in lieu of participation 
in the State system or local plan.  
 
 (b) An eligible governmental unit that operates a local plan or participates in a 
State system may approve participation of its law enforcement of ficers [or], firefighters , 
OR EMERGENCY MEDICAL  TECHNICIANS  in the Law Enforcement Officers’ Pension 
System only if:  
 
  (1) the State system or local plan of the eligible governmental unit requires 
member contributions at the same rate as the member contri bution rate that would be 
applicable to the law enforcement officers [or], firefighters , OR EMERGENCY MEDICAL  
TECHNIC IANS of the eligible governmental unit in the Law Enforcement Officers’ Pension 
System; or  
 
  (2) the eligible governmental unit:  
 
   (i) does not provide for the employer pickup of member 
contributions to the State system or local plan within the meaning of § 414(h)(2) of the 
Internal Revenue Code; and  
 
   (ii) certifies that it will not become an approved employer under § 
21–313 of this art icle on or after the effective date of participation.  
 WES MOORE, Governor  Ch. 188  
 
– 7 –  
 (c) (1) If an eligible governmental unit does not satisfy the requirements 
under subsection (b) of this section, the eligible governmental unit may submit a request to 
the Board of Trustees to partici pate in the Law Enforcement Officers’ Pension System.  
 
  (2) The Board of Trustees shall consider a request made under paragraph 
(1) of this subsection and determine whether any legislation is necessary to allow the 
eligible governmental unit to participat e in the Law Enforcement Officers’ Pension System.  
 
  (3) The Board of Trustees shall make recommendations to the Joint 
Committee on Pensions regarding any legislation that it determines is necessary to allow 
the eligible governmental unit to participate i n the Law Enforcement Officers’ Pension 
System.  
 
31–2A–03.1.  
 
 (a) Except as provided in subsection (b) of this section, the effective date of 
participation for an eligible governmental unit is July 1 of the year following the fiscal year 
in which the elig ible governmental unit elects to participate in the Law Enforcement 
Officers’ Pension System.  
 
 (b) If an eligible governmental unit does not provide the Board of Trustees with 
the necessary documentation to join the Law Enforcement Officers’ Pension Syste m on or 
before the effective date for the eligible governmental unit, the effective date shall be 
postponed until July 1 of the second year following the fiscal year in which the eligible 
governmental unit elects to participate in the Law Enforcement Offic ers’ Pension System.  
 
31–2A–04. 
 
 If a law enforcement officer, firefighter, EMERGENCY MEDICAL TE CHNICIAN , or 
paramedic joins the Law Enforcement Officers’ Pension System on the effective date, the 
member is entitled to credit for employment with the parti cipating governmental unit 
before the effective date.  
 
31–2A–05. 
 
 (a) This section applies only to a local plan that is a qualified plan under § 401(a) 
of the Internal Revenue Code and provides a defined benefit to its participants.  
 
 (b) If an eligible governmental unit approves participation in the Law 
Enforcement Officers’ Pension System, the operation of the local plan or State system with 
respect to the law enforcement officers, firefighters,  EMERGENCY MEDICAL 
TECHNICIANS , or paramedic s terminates on the effective date.  
 
 (c) (1) On the effective date:  
 
Ch. 188  2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND   
 
– 8 –    (i) the assets to the credit of the local plan or State system that 
relate to the law enforcement officers, firefighters, EMERGENCY MEDICAL TE CHNICIANS , 
or paramedics who elect to bec ome members shall be transferred to the Law Enforcement 
Officers’ Pension System; and  
 
   (ii) the trustee or other administrative head of the local plan or State 
system shall certify the proportion of the funds of the local plan or State system that 
repre sents the accumulated contributions of the members as of that date.  
 
  (2) The accumulated contributions shall be credited to the respective 
annuity savings accounts of the members in the Law Enforcement Officers’ Pension 
System.  
 
  (3) The balance of the funds transferred to the Law Enforcement Officers’ 
Pension System shall be offset against the special accrued liability to be funded by the 
participating governmental unit as provided by § 21 –306.1(d) of this article.  
 
 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED , That this Act shall take effect July 
1, 2023.  
 
Approved by the Governor, April 24, 2023.  