 WES MOORE, Governor  Ch. 527  
 
– 1 – Chapter 527  
(House Bill 909 ) 
 
AN ACT concerning  
 
State Commission of Real Estate Appraisers, Appraisal Management 
Companies, and Home Inspectors – Sunset Extension  
 
FOR the purpose of continuing the State Commission of Real Estate Appraisers, Appraisal 
Management Companies, and Home Inspectors in accordance with the provisions of 
the Maryland Program Evaluation Act (sunset law) by extending to a certain date 
the termi nation provisions relating to the statutory and regulatory authority of the 
Commission; requiring an independent evaluation of the Commission; and generally 
relating to the State Commission of Real Estate Appraisers, Appraisal Management 
Companies, and Hom e Inspectors.  
 
BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,  
 Article – Business Occupations and Professions  
 Section 16 –802 
 Annotated Code of Maryland  
 (2018 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)  
 
 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF  MARYLAND, 
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:  
 
Article – Business Occupations and Professions  
 
16–802. 
 
 Subject to the evaluation and reestablishment provisions of the Maryland Program 
Evaluation Act, this title and all regulations adopted under t his title shall terminate and 
be of no effect after July 1, [2023] 2026 .  
 
 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That:  
 
 (a) In this section, “Department” means the Maryland Department of Labor.  
 
 (b) The Department, subject to subsection (c) of this sect ion, shall hire a 
consultant to conduct an independent evaluation of the State Commission of Real Estate 
Appraisers, Appraisal Management Companies, and Home Inspectors, to determine if the 
Commission is adhering to the most recent Uniform Standards of Pro fessional Appraisal 
Practice’s diversity, equity, and inclusion guidelines in its regulation of real estate 
appraisers and appraisal management companies in the State.  
 
 (c) (1) The independent evaluation of the Commission required under 
subsection (b) of this section shall be conducted under the supervision of  in consultation 
Ch. 527  2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND   
 
– 2 – with the Office of Program Evaluation and Government Accountability in the Department 
of Legislative Services , which, in consultation with the Department, may:  
 
   (i) write the proposal for the hiring of the consultant;  
 
   (ii) select the consultant; and  
 
   (iii) distribute the evaluation to the committees of jurisdiction, in 
accordance with the Maryland Program Evaluation Act.  
 
  (2) (i) The Department shall pay the costs of t he independent 
evaluation required under this section.  
 
   (ii) The Department may use funds from the State Commission of 
Real Estate Appraisers, Appraisal Management Companies, and Home Inspectors Fund to 
cover the cost of the independent evaluation . 
 
 (d) The independent evaluation required under this section shall be:  
 
  (1) completed for consideration by the committees of jurisdiction during the 
2024 legislative session; and  
 
  (2) submitted by the Department to the  Office of Program Evaluation and 
Government Accountability and to the Senate Finance Committee and the House Economic 
Matters Committee, in accordance with § 2 –1257 of the State Government Article, on or 
before January 1, 2024.  
 
 SECTION 3. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall ta ke effect June 
1, 2023.  
 
Approved by the Governor, May 8, 2023.  