 WES MOORE, Governor  Ch. 721  
 
– 1 – Chapter 721  
(Senate Bill 293 ) 
 
AN ACT concerning  
 
Corrections – Incarcerated Individuals  
 
FOR the purpose of altering the term “inmate” to be “incarcerated individual”; requiring 
the publishers of the Annotated Code of Maryland, in consultation with and subject 
to the approval of the Department of Legislative Services, to correct any  
cross –references or terminol ogy rendered incorrect by this Act and to describe any 
corrections made in an editor’s note following the section affected; and generally 
relating to incarcerated individuals.  
 
BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,  
 Article – Correctional Serv ices 
Section 1 –101(a)  
 Annotated Code of Maryland  
 (2017 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)  
 
BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,  
 Article – Correctional Services  
Section 1 –101(k)  
 Annotated Code of Maryland  
 (2017 Replacement Volume and 2022  Supplement)  
 
 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND, 
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:  
 
Article – Correctional Services  
 
1–101. 
 
 (a) In this article the following words have the meanings indicated.  
 
 (k) [“Inmate” ] “INCARCERATED INDIVIDU AL” means an individual who is 
actually or constructively detained or confined in a correctional facility.  
 
 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That in every law, executive order, 
rule, regulation, policy, or document created by an y official, employee, or unit of this State, 
inmates are renamed incarcerated individuals, as provided in this Act.  
 
 SECTION 3. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That the publisher of the 
Annotated Code of Maryland, in consultation with and subject to the approv al of the 
Department of Legislative Services, shall correct, with no further action required by the 
General Assembly, cross –references and terminology rendered incorrect by this Act. 
Ch. 721  2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND   
 
– 2 – References to “inmate” throughout the Code shall be replaced with referen ces to 
“incarcerated individual”. The publisher shall adequately describe any correction that is 
made in an editor’s note following the section affected.  
 
 SECTION 4. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect 
October 1, 2023.  
 
Approved by the Governor, May 16, 2023.  