 WES MOORE, Governor  Ch. 65  
 
– 1 – Chapter 65  
(Senate Bill 718 ) 
 
AN ACT concerning  
 
Voluntary Cleanup Program – Determination and Recordation Deadlines  
 
FOR the purpose of altering determination and recordation deadlines for the Voluntary 
Cleanup Program; and generally relating to the Voluntary Cleanup Program.  
 
BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,  
Article – Environment  
Section 7 –501(a), (c), (g), (h), (j), (k), and (n) and 7 –514(d)(2)  
Annotated Code of Maryland  
(2013 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)  
 
BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,  
Article – Environment  
Section 7 –506(e)(1) and (i)(1), 7 –513(a), and 7 –514(d)(1)  
Annotated Code of Maryland  
(2013 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)  
 
 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND, 
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:  
 
Article – Environment  
 
7–501. 
 
 (a) In this subtitle the following words have the meanings indicated.  
 
 (c) “Applicant” means a person w ho applies to participate in the Voluntary 
Cleanup Program.  
 
 (g) (1) “Eligible property” means property that is contaminated or perceived to 
be contaminated.  
 
  (2) “Eligible property” does not include property that is:  
 
   (i) On the national priorities list under § 105 of the federal act;  
 
   (ii) Except as provided in paragraph (3)(i) of this subsection, under 
active enforcement; or  
 
   (iii) Subject to a controlled hazardous substances permit issued in 
accordance with this title.  
Ch. 65  2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND   
 
– 2 –  
  (3) (i) “Eligible p roperty” includes a site under active enforcement if:  
 
    1. All applications filed in connection with the property are 
filed by inculpable persons; and  
 
    2. Any response action plan and cleanup criteria approved by 
the Department under this subtitle i s at least as protective of public health and the 
environment as the requirements of any outstanding active enforcement action.  
 
   (ii) “Eligible property” includes sites listed on the Superfund 
Enterprise Management System or the Comprehensive Environmen tal Response, 
Compensation, and Liability Information System.  
 
 (h) “Federal act” has the meaning stated in § 7 –201(j) of this title.  
 
 (j) (1) “Inculpable person” means a person who:  
 
   (i) Has no prior or current ownership interest in an eligible proper ty 
at the time of application to participate in the Voluntary Cleanup Program; and  
 
   (ii) Has not caused or contributed to contamination at the eligible 
property at the time of application to participate in the Voluntary Cleanup Program.  
 
  (2) “Inculpab le person” includes:  
 
   (i) A successor in interest in an eligible property acquired from an 
inculpable person, as defined in paragraph (1) of this subsection, if the successor in interest 
does not have a prior ownership interest in the eligible property and, other than by virtue 
of ownership of the eligible property, is not otherwise a responsible person at the eligible 
property; and  
 
   (ii) Notwithstanding paragraph (1)(i) of this subsection, a person 
who is not considered a responsible person under § 7–201(t)(2) of this title.  
 
 (k) “Participant” means an applicant accepted into the Voluntary Cleanup 
Program.  
 
 (n) “Responsible person” has the meaning stated in § 7 –201(t) of this title.  
 
7–506. 
 
 (e) (1) (i) The Department shall notify the applicant in writing, within [45] 
60 days after receipt of the application, whether:  
 
 WES MOORE, Governor  Ch. 65  
 
– 3 –     1. The application, including the applicant’s status as a 
responsible person or an inculpable person, is approved;  
 
    2. The applica tion is denied or incomplete; or  
 
    3. The Department has no further requirements related to 
the investigation of controlled hazardous substances at the eligible property as provided in 
paragraph (3) of this subsection.  
 
   (ii) If the Department denies the application or determines that the 
application is incomplete, the Department shall provide to the applicant the reasons for its 
decision in writing.  
 
 (i) (1) If a determination by the Department that it has no further 
requirements is conditioned on ce rtain uses of the property or on the maintenance of certain 
conditions, the participant shall record the determination  PROVIDE WRITTEN EVID ENCE 
TO THE DEPARTMENT THAT THE D ETERMINATION WAS PRE SENTED FOR 
RECORDATION  in the land records of the local jurisdic tion within [30] 60 days after 
receiving the determination.  
 
7–513. 
 
 (a) (1) Upon completion of the requirements of the response action plan, the 
participant shall notify the Department in writing that the response action plan has been 
completed.  
 
  (2) Within [30] 60 days after receipt of the notice of completion under 
paragraph (1) of this subsection:  
 
   (i) The Department shall review the implementation and 
completion of the response action plan at the eligible property; and  
 
   (ii) If the Department determines that the requirements of the 
response action plan have been completed to the satisfaction of the Department and the 
response action plan has achieved the cleanup criteria, the Department shall issue a 
certificate of completion.  
 
7–514. 
 
 (d) (1) If a certificate of completion is conditioned on the permissible use of the 
property, the participant shall record the certificate of completion  PROVIDE WRITTEN 
EVIDENCE TO THE DEPARTMENT THAT THE C ERTIFICATE OF COMPLE TION WAS 
PRESENTED FOR RECORD ATION  in the land records of the local jurisdiction within [30] 
60 days after receiving the certificate.  
 
Ch. 65  2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND   
 
– 4 –   (2) If the certificate of completion has a conditioned use and the participant 
fails to record the certificate of completion in the land records in accordan ce with paragraph 
(1) of this subsection, the certificate of completion shall be void.  
 
 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect 
October 1, 2023.  
 
Approved by the Governor, April 11, 2023.  